FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20030131162842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
 
CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 27, 2002. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and the quarterly Flash document is filed as Exhibit 99.2.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report.
 
99.1 Press Release of January 30, 2003 from CSX Corporation.
99.2 Quarterly Flash Document
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 30, 2003

Contact: Dan Murphy
(904) 366-2949
 
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported fourth quarter net income of $137 million, or 64 cents per share, up from $65 million, or 31 cents a year ago. Fourth quarter 2001 earnings included a litigation provision, which reduced earnings by $37 million, or 17 cents per share.
RICHMOND, Va., Jan. 30, 2003 
 
Stronger operating results from surface transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, account for much of the year-over-year quarterly improvement. Surface transportation operating income was $281 million compared to $186 million in 2001, which included the $60 million litigation provision. Adjusting for this provision, operating income would have been $246 million in 2001. The 2002 fourth-quarter operating income has $11 million of net benefits primarily from state and local tax adjustments.
 
In the fourth quarter, solid merchandise, automotive and intermodal revenue gains more than offset an 8% year-to-year decline in coal revenues. Labor expenses were flat compared to a year ago, while lower material and supply costs and Conrail expenses for the quarter more than offset higher depreciation and fuel expenses. Purchased inland transportation costs increased in proportion with the continued success of CSX's truck to rail modal conversion program.
 
Michael J. Ward, CSX president, noted: "The company regained earnings momentum in the fourth quarter. Our people are providing customers with better service, productivity is rising and costs are lower, and employee safety continues to improve.
 
"We are looking for solid gains in 2003. Our productivity gains and cost reduction efforts throughout the company will continue," Ward said. "With our pricing programs and modal conversion initiatives, we are looking for revenue gains even in a flat economy. Here in the first quarter, fuel and weather are challenges, but I am confident that we can lessen their impact."
 
On a consolidated basis, CSX fourth-quarter operating income totaled $318 million versus $221 million, including the litigation provision. Revenues were $2.06 billion compared to $2.01 billion in 2001. These results include CSX Lines, which is being conveyed to the Carlyle Group, and CSX World Terminals.
 
For the full year 2002, CSX net income was $424 million, or $1.99 per share, compared to $293 million, or $1.38 per share in the prior year. 2002 results include the cumulative effect of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," in the first quarter which reduced net earnings by $43 million, or 20 cents per share. 2001 results include the litigation provision taken in the fourth quarter, which lowered net earnings by $37 million, or 17 cents per share.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Richmond, Va., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal, container-shipping and international terminal management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address: .
.
www.csx.com
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

CSX REPORTS HIGHER FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported fourth quarter net income of $137 million, or 64 cents per share, up from $65 million, or 31 cents a year ago. Fourth quarter 2001 earnings included a litigation provision, which reduced earnings by $37 million, or 17 cents per share.
RICHMOND, Va., Jan. 30, 2003
 
Stronger operating results from surface transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, account for much of the year-over-year quarterly improvement. Surface transportation operating income was $281 million compared to $186 million in 2001, which included the $60 million litigation provision. Adjusting for this provision, operating income would have been $246 million in 2001. The 2002 fourth-quarter operating income has $11 million of net benefits primarily from state and local tax adjustments.
 
In the fourth quarter, solid merchandise, automotive and intermodal revenue gains more than offset an 8% year-to-year decline in coal revenues. Labor expenses were flat compared to a year ago, while lower material and supply costs and Conrail expenses for the quarter more than offset higher depreciation and fuel expenses. Purchased inland transportation costs increased in proportion with the continued success of CSX's truck to rail modal conversion program.
 
Michael J. Ward, CSX president, noted: "The company regained earnings momentum in the fourth quarter. Our people are providing customers with better service, productivity is rising and costs are lower, and employee safety continues to improve.
 
"We are looking for solid gains in 2003. Our productivity gains and cost reduction efforts throughout the company will continue," Ward said. "With our pricing programs and modal conversion initiatives, we are looking for revenue gains even in a flat economy. Here in the first quarter, fuel and weather are challenges, but I am confident that we can lessen their impact."
 
On a consolidated basis, CSX fourth-quarter operating income totaled $318 million versus $221 million, including the litigation provision. Revenues were $2.06 billion compared to $2.01 billion in 2001. These results include CSX Lines, which is being conveyed to the Carlyle Group, and CSX World Terminals.
 
For the full year 2002, CSX net income was $424 million, or $1.99 per share, compared to $293 million, or $1.38 per share in the prior year. 2002 results include the cumulative effect of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," in the first quarter which reduced net earnings by $43 million, or 20 cents per share. 2001 results include the litigation provision taken in the fourth quarter, which lowered net earnings by $37 million, or 17 cents per share.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Richmond, Va., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal, container-shipping and international terminal management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address: .
.
www.csx.com
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
EBITDA FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS(1) (Unaudited)
(Millions of Dollars)
 
This computation of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is presented because management believes it is a widely accepted financial indicator used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies on the basis of operating performance. This is not considered to be better information than is available in the Company's publicly available reports filed with the SEC and does not conform with generally accepted accounting principles. CSX owns a 42% undivided interest in Conrail, Inc., and operates over a portion of the Conrail territory under the terms of an operating agreement. Conrail loans its excess cash to its owners under loan agreements at market interest rates. The calculation of EBITDA combines CSX and Conrail financial data for analytical purposes only and is not intended to suggest that CSX has control over Conrail's operations.
 
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)(1) (Unaudited)
 
 
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENTESTIMATED
 
 
Surface Transportation operating expenses decreased by $4 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2001 (excluding 2001 litigation provision of $60 million).
 
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS(1)
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
 
MERCHANDISE
 
Merchandise revenues in the fourth quarter were up 5% on flat year-over-year volumes. With the exception of phosphate and fertilizer revenues, which were flat, all merchandise markets showed year-over-year revenue improvement.
 
Weakness in lower revenue per car movements of phosphate rock, potash and ammonia shipments was more than offset by strength in higher revenue-per-car movements of domestic phosphate chemicals and sulfur.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 
Favorable variance was driven by strong import and domestic slab shipments, along with increased coil, plate and structural shipments.
Metals
 
Gains in higher revenue-per-car movements of canned goods, alcohol and Express Lane shipments more than offset weakness in lower revenue per car shipments of appliances and transportation equipment.
Food and Consumer
 
Weak prior year comparisons resulted in volume gains primarily due to pulp board shipments and low box plant inventories. Year-over-year comparisons for printing paper shipments were also positive, driven primarily by depressed post Sept. 11 shipments last year.
Paper and Forest
 
Weakness in feed ingredients and export grain was offset by increase in wheat flour and domestic grain movements.
Agricultural
 
Positive performance was driven by strength in plastics, textile chemicals and liquid petroleum gas. Rate increases continue to drive revenue yield improvements.
Chemicals
 
Strength in industrial sand more than offset weakness in roofing granules, industrial sand and ores.
Minerals
 
Strength in high revenue-per-car military movements more than offset weakness in low revenue per car movements of aggregates and salt.
Emerging Markets
 
AUTOMOTIVE
 
Automotive volumes were up 5% and revenue was up 8% in the fourth quarter. Yield improvement continues to be driven primarily by favorable mix and extended linehauls. Year-over-year volume comparisons continued to be favorable due to continued growth in light truck production.
 
COAL, COKE AND IRON ORE
 
Fourth quarter coal volumes and revenues were down 8%. Utility volumes were down as a result of reduced trans-load shipments to Lake Erie and to Southern utilities. Export movements were down significantly as a result of reduced competitive standing of U.S. coal in the international market. Metallurgical and industrial markets were down due to general economic conditions affecting end use markets. Tons per car continue to increase as a result of mix and car type utilization but the resulting yield improvement is offset by increased short-haul shipments.
 
INTERMODAL
 
Significant strength in transcontinental domestic container traffic offset continued weakness in U.S. mail and parcels in the fourth quarter. Revenue per unit improved due to increased length of haul, a favorable pricing environment and growth in higher priced door-to-door traffic.
Domestic
 
The labor disruptions at West Coast ports had a negative impact on volume and revenue. Diversions of Pacific Rim traffic to East Coast ports offset some of this impact but had a negative impact on revenue per unit.
International
 
DOMESTIC CONTAINER SHIPPING
 
Operating income was $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 compared to $11 million in the prior year. Fourth quarter 2002 earnings were affected by approximately $7 million as a result of the ten-day labor disruptions at West Coast ports. CSX Lines' revenue was up by $22 million over the prior year. Strong market share gains in the Hawaii and Puerto Rico tradelanes were offset by a loss of $12 million in revenue in the Hawaii and Alaska tradelanes from the labor disruptions. Operating expenses have increased by $27 million over the prior year as a result of the increased volume being carried, which includes the deployment of an additional vessel in the Puerto Rico trade, and a $5 million impact from higher fuel prices.
 
On Dec. 17, 2002, CSX announced that it had reached an agreement to convey its domestic container-shipping subsidiary, CSX Lines, LLC to a venture for $300 million ($240 million of cash and $60 million of securities). CSX expects this transaction to close in the first quarter of 2003.
 
INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS
 
Operating income for the fourth quarter was $24 million compared to $21 million in the prior year, an improvement of 14%. Revenue was down $2 million as a direct result of the global economic conditions and the impact from the labor disruptions on the West Coast. Several cost-cutting initiatives and a $6 million gain on the divestiture of a portion of the Caucedo terminal ownership interest, which is included in miscellaneous, more than offset the lower revenue.
 
 
INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS OPERATING STATISTICS(1)
 


