FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20031024110135.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the third quarter ended September 26, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, www.csx.com.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 24, 2003

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Adam Hollingsworth
(904) 366-2949
 
 
, Fla., October 22, 2003CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) announced today a consolidated loss per share for the third quarter of 48 cents. The loss resulted from a change in accounting estimate and the expected settlement of disputes in connection with the company's 1999 sale of international container-shipping assets.
JACKSONVILLE
 
Excluding the after-tax charges described below of $212 million, or 99 cents per share, consolidated earnings per share for the third quarter are 51 cents on net earnings of $109 million, versus $127 million, or 60 cents a share, a year ago.
 
The quarter included after-tax expenses of $145 million, or 68 cents per share, reflecting a change in CSX's estimate for occupational and personal injury liabilities. Most of the charge represents CSX's estimated cost of incurred but not reported, asbestos and other occupational disease claims. In addition, the quarter included an after-tax charge of $67 million, or 31 cents per share, to account for the expected settlement of disputes in connection with the 1999 sale of CSX's international container-shipping assets. Neither charge is expected to have a material impact on cash flows in future periods.
 
Surface Transportation revenue, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.82 billion, up two percent from a year ago. Revenue and volume improved in all of the company's merchandise markets. Coal, auto and intermodal revenues were basically flat on a year-over-year basis. Total CSX revenues for the quarter were $1.88 billion versus $2.06 billion last year. The prior year comparison includes revenue of $215 million from CSX Lines, an affiliated company conveyed to the Carlyle Group in February 2003.
 
"Given heightened interest in asbestos issues, the company recently undertook a review of its overall methodology. Consistent with a recent trend by companies with asbestos exposure, including other reporting railroads, CSX decided to accrue for incurred but not reported asbestos and other occupational claims. That means the company will accrue for future claims, as well as those already filed. In addition, estimates have been reviewed by third-party experts.
 
"Resolution of the container shipping disputes, while subject to some conditions, will put behind us issues unrelated to our core business," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"As for the rail and intermodal businesses, we are pleased with the revenue growth in merchandise resulting from our continued drive to improve yield and move shipments from other
modes to CSX," Ward said. "However, operating inefficiencies continued to keep our expenses too high.
 
"As we move forward, a more disciplined approach is beginning to improve the fluidity of our network. I am confident that as we improve our service, we will drive productivity up significantly and deliver more to the bottom line," Ward added.
 
On a consolidated basis operating losses for the quarter totaled $98 million, versus operating income of $276 million last year. Surface Transportation had an operating loss of $16 million, reflecting the change in accounting estimate. Excluding this change, Surface Transportation would have shown operating income for the quarter of $213 million, down from $227 million in last year's third quarter. CSX's international terminal business reported operating income of $20 million versus $18 million in the third quarter of 2002.
 
The decline in Surface Transportation operating income essentially resulted from an overall lack of network fluidity, which drove increased equipment, employee, fuel and related service costs. Some of the decline resulted from additional costs and revenue being delayed or lost from the power blackout in the Northeast and Midwest, the impacts of a computer virus on CSX and the effects of Hurricane Isabel in the Mid-Atlantic states.
 
CSX will hold a third-quarter earnings conference call at 11 a.m., Friday, October 24. The dial-in number for this call is (212) 271-4562.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal and international terminal management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address:
.
www.csx.com
 
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
CSX REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) announced today a consolidated loss per share for the third quarter of 48 cents. The loss resulted from a change in accounting estimate and the expected settlement of disputes in connection with the company's 1999 sale of international container-shipping assets.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Oct. 22, 2003
 
Excluding the after-tax charges described below of $212 million, or 99 cents per share, consolidated earnings per share for the third quarter are 51 cents on net earnings of $109 million, versus $127 million, or 60 cents a share, a year ago.
 
The quarter included after-tax expenses of $145 million, or 68 cents per share, reflecting a change in CSX's estimate for occupational and personal injury liabilities. Most of the charge represents CSX's estimated cost of incurred but not reported asbestos and other occupational disease claims. In addition, the quarter included an after-tax charge of $67 million, or 31 cents per share, to account for the expected settlement of disputes in connection with the 1999 sale of CSX's international container-shipping assets. Neither charge is expected to have a material impact on cash flows in future periods.
 
Surface Transportation revenue, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.82 billion, up two percent from a year ago. Revenue and volume improved in all of the company's merchandise markets. Coal, auto and intermodal revenues were basically flat on a year-over-year basis. Total CSX revenues for the quarter were $1.88 billion versus $2.06 billion last year. The prior year comparison includes revenue of $215 million from CSX Lines, an affiliated company conveyed to the Carlyle Group in February 2003.
 
"Given heightened interest in asbestos issues, the company recently undertook a review of its overall methodology. Consistent with a recent trend by companies with asbestos exposure, including other reporting railroads, CSX decided to accrue for incurred but not reported asbestos and other occupational claims. That means the company will accrue for future claims, as well as those already filed. In addition, estimates have been reviewed by third-party experts.
 
"Resolution of the container shipping disputes, while subject to some conditions, will put behind us issues unrelated to our core business," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer.
 
"As for the rail and intermodal businesses, we are pleased with the revenue growth in merchandise resulting from our continued drive to improve yield and move shipments from other modes to CSX," Ward said. "However, operating inefficiencies continued to keep our expenses too high.
 
"As we move forward, a more disciplined approach is beginning to improve the fluidity of our network. I am confident that as we improve our service, we will drive productivity up significantly and deliver more to the bottom line," Ward added.
 
On a consolidated basis operating losses for the quarter totaled $98 million, versus operating income of $276 million last year. Surface Transportation had an operating loss of $16 million, reflecting the change in accounting estimate. Excluding this change, Surface Transportation would have shown operating income for the quarter of $213 million, down from $227 million in last year's third quarter. CSX's international terminal business reported operating income of $20 million versus $18 million in the third quarter of 2002.
 
The decline in Surface Transportation operating income essentially resulted from an overall lack of network fluidity, which drove increased equipment, employee, fuel and related service costs. Some of the decline resulted from additional costs and revenue being delayed or lost from the power blackout in the Northeast and Midwest, the impacts of a computer virus on CSX and the effects of Hurricane Isabel in the Mid-Atlantic states.
 
CSX will hold a third-quarter earnings conference call at 11 a.m., Friday, October 24. The dial-in number for this call is (212) 271-4562.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal and international terminal management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address:
.
www.csx.com
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
500 Water Street
15th Floor, C900
Jacksonville, FL 32202
http://www. csx.com
 
Contact:
 
Peter Mills
(904) 359-3184
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2003 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
$108 million pretax, $67 million after tax, or 31 cents per share. This charge is reflected in the financial statements as the additional loss on sale of the international container-shipping assets.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
CSX Corporation and Subsidiaries                                                                                                                                        Quarterly
Flash
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (Unaudited)
(1)
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
Quarters Ended Sept. 26, 2003, and Sept. 27, 2002
 
 
Nine Months Ended Sept. 26, 2003, and Sept. 27, 2002
 
 
 
CSX Corporation and Subsidiaries                                                                                                                                         Quarterly
Flash
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC AND REVENUE
(1)
Loads (Thousands); Revenue (Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
 
 
Merchandise
 
Merchandise showed strong growth in the third quarter with revenues up 5 percent on 3 percent volume growth. All markets showed year-over-year improvements in revenue and volume.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automotive
 
Volume decline was directly attributed to flat sales and a 200,000 unit year-over-year decline in North American light vehicle production. Field inventories were five days higher year-over-year. Haul extensions and price increases partially mitigated sales and production impact on revenue and improved yield.
 
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
 
Reduced production levels drove year-over-year weakness in steel related traffic. Strength in export moves resulted due to high European steam coal demand for electricity generation to cooling systems. Utility revenue was favorable year-over-year due to pricing initiatives and strong long haul mix.
 
Intermodal
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS (
continued
)
 
 
expenses were up $10 million in the third quarter of 2003, compared to the same period of the prior year. Benefits of reduced staffing levels and reversal of the Company's incentive compensation accrual were offset by increased costs relating to contract wage inflation, overtime costs and severance and related costs.
Labor and Fringe
 
expenses increased $23 million quarter-over-quarter due to increased derailment costs, increased railway maintenance costs and decreased efficiencies. These expenses were offset, in part, by favorable environmental and other costs.
Materials, Supplies and Other
 
increased $4 million in the third quarter of 2003, as compared to the prior year period, as a result of increased usage of Shared Areas and a contractual increase in the rental fee for Shared Area facilities.
Conrail Rents, Fees and Services
 
decreased $4 million in the 2003 third quarter compared to the prior year as a result of car hire reclaims in the 2002 period that did not recur in this quarter.
Building and Equipment Rent
 
expenses increased $23 million in the third quarter of 2003, as compared to the same period of the prior year. The expense increase is primarily due to $16 million in fuel price increases.
Fuel
 
of $229 million represents the charge recorded in conjunction with the Company's change in estimate for its casualty reserves to include an estimate of incurred but not reported claims for asbestos and other occupational injuries to be received over the next seven years.
Provision for Casualty Claims
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS
 
OPERATING RESULTS
 
Revenue decreased $5 million, or 8 percent, to $59 million for the 2003 quarter, compared to $64 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to weakness in the Hong Kong market.
 
Expenses decreased $7 million to $39 million for the third quarter, compared to $46 million for the 2002 quarter, partially attributed to reduced labor and fringe costs due to reduced volume at its Hong Kong operations and a $3 million gain related to the divestiture of a portion of the Caucedo terminal ownership interest, which offset other miscellaneous expenses.
 
Operating income increased $2 million for the 2003 quarter, as compared to the 2002 quarter, due to a gain on the sale of a portion of Caucedo terminal ownership interest and aggressive cost focus to offset the revenue decline in Hong Kong.
 
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) (All Per Share Amounts Assume Dilution)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES (Unaudited)
 
 
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
(1)
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
EBITDA (Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
This computation of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is presented because management believes it is a financial indicator used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies on the basis of operating performance. This is not considered to be better information than is available in the Company's publicly available reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and does not conform with generally accepted accounting principles. CSX owns a 42 percent undivided interest in Conrail Inc., and operates over a portion of the Conrail territory under the terms of an operating agreement. Conrail loans its excess cash to its owners under loan agreements at market interest rates. The calculation of EBITDA combines CSX and Conrail financial data for analytical purposes only and is not intended to suggest that CSX has control over Conrail's operations.
 
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENTESTIMATED
 
 


