FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20030725112435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.    EXHIBITS
 
 
99.1 Press Release as of July 24, 2003 from CSX Corporation
99.2 Quarterly Flash Document
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE (ITEM 12, DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS  
                  OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION).
 
CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the second quarter ended June 27, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, www.csx.com.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 24, 2003

Exhibit 99.1
 
Adam Hollingsworth
Contact:
(904) 359-3161
 
 
, Fla., July 24, 2003  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported second quarter net earnings of $127 million, or 59 cents per share, versus $135 million, or 63 cents per share, a year ago.
JACKSONVILLE
 
Revenue at Surface Transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.89 billion, up from $1.83 billion in the second quarter of 2002. Surface Transportation operating income was $259 million compared to $293 million in the prior-year period. The quarter also included previously announced expenses of $17 million related to new asbestos claims filed in West Virginia; while the 2002 second quarter included $11 million in net favorable settlements of contract disputes. Operating income on a consolidated basis totaled $285 million, down from $321 million a year ago.
 
"We continued to see strong revenue growth in the quarter, and have successfully converted more than one million truck loads from the highway to our railroad since the beginning of 2001," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite a continued sluggish economy, our modal conversion efforts produced solid gains in the forest products, metals, waste and intermodal markets. In addition, coal rebounded in the quarter and showed solid year-over-year improvement.
 
"However, we continued to be challenged by slowed operations as the railroad struggled to recover from a difficult operating environment during the early parts of the quarter. Reduced network fluidity caused a significant increase in labor expenses, partially offsetting the strong revenue gains. Looking ahead, we will regain our operational discipline and push more of our revenue to the bottom line," Ward added.
 
Ward said Surface Transportation revenue growth outpaced the nation's gross domestic product in the first half of 2003 and that revenue growth will continue even as questions about the economy remain. He also noted that the company is still on target to meet its year-end staff reduction and free cash flow plans.
 
On a consolidated basis, revenues were $1.94 billion versus $2.07 billion a year ago. Operating income at the company's international terminal business was $17 million, compared to $16 million in the second quarter of 2002. A significant real estate sale in the second quarter of 2003 benefited the "Other Income" category.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal and international terminal
management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address:
.
www.csx.com
 
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
CSX REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER EARNINGS
 
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported second quarter net earnings of $127 million, or 59 cents per share, versus $135 million, or 63 cents per share, a year ago.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 24, 2003
 
Revenue at Surface Transportation, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.89 billion, up from $1.83 billion in the second quarter of 2002. Surface Transportation operating income was $259 million compared to $293 million in the prior-year period. The quarter also included previously announced expenses of $17 million related to new asbestos claims filed in West Virginia; while the 2002 second quarter included $11 million in net favorable settlements of contract disputes. Operating income on a consolidated basis totaled $285 million, down from $321 million a year ago.
 
"We continued to see strong revenue growth in the quarter, and have successfully converted more than one million truck loads from the highway to our railroad since the beginning of 2001," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite a continued sluggish economy, our modal conversion efforts produced solid gains in the forest products, metals, waste and intermodal markets. In addition, coal rebounded in the quarter and showed solid year-over-year improvement.
 
"However, we continued to be challenged by slowed operations as the railroad struggled to recover from a difficult operating environment during the early parts of the quarter. Reduced network fluidity caused a significant increase in labor expenses, partially offsetting the strong revenue gains. Looking ahead, we will regain our operational discipline and push more of our revenue to the bottom line," Ward added.
 
Ward said Surface Transportation revenue growth outpaced the nation's gross domestic product in the first half of 2003 and that revenue growth will continue even as questions about the economy remain. He also noted that the company is still on target to meet its year-end staff reduction and free cash flow plans.
 
On a consolidated basis, revenues were $1.94 billion versus $2.07 billion a year ago. Operating income at the company's international terminal business was $17 million, compared to $16 million in the second quarter of 2002. A significant real estate sale in the second quarter of 2003 benefited the "Other Income" category.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., operates one of the largest rail networks in the United States and also provides intermodal and international terminal management servicesMore information about the company is available at its Internet address:
.
www.csx.com
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
 
500 Water Street
15
th
Floor, C900
Jacksonville, FL 32202
http://www.csx.com
 
Contact:
 
Fredrik Eliasson
(904) 359-3305
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2003 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (Unaudited)
(1)
(Dollars in Millions)
 
Quarters Ended June 27, 2003, and June 28, 2002
 
 
Six Months Ended June 27, 2003, and June 28, 2002
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC AND REVENUE
(1)
Loads (Thousands); Revenue (Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
 
 
Merchandise
 
Merchandise revenue in the second quarter of 2003 was up 4 percent on 1 percent volume growth as compared to the 2002 quarter. All markets except chemicals showed quarter-over-quarter revenue improvement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automotive
 
Automotive revenue decreased $7 million or 3 percent. Vehicle production declined 9 percent versus 2002. Haul extensions on existing business, and new business activities partially mitigated the impact of reduced vehicle production.
 
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
 
Coal, coke and iron ore revenue increased 4 percent quarter-over-quarter on 2 percent volume growth. Strong utility demand and modal conversion initiatives drove performance. Favorable yield was due to improved mix and continued pricing success.
 
Intermodal
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
(continued)
 
 
expenses were up $22 million in the second quarter of 2003, as compared to the prior year quarter. The effects of inflation continue to drive labor and fringe expense increases, while greater labor needs associated with diminished network fluidity and volume increased expenses. Costs related to variable deferred compensation plans tied to market performance also contributed to the quarter-over-quarter increase.
Labor and Fringe
 
expenses increased $9 million period-over-period. Increased occupational and personal injury claims, including a charge relating to new asbestos claims filed in West Virginia during the second quarter 2003, were primary drivers of the increase. These increases were offset, in part, by favorable resolution of property tax litigation in the state of New York.
Materials, Supplies and Other
 
expenses increased $8 million in the second quarter as compared to the prior year period due primarily to less favorable claims experience on personal injury and occupational reserves and increased usage charges on the Shared Asset Areas.
Conrail
 
decreased $9 million quarter-over-quarter because of favorable mix and due to renegotiated carhire rates which more than offset unfavorable utilization due to the network fluidity decline.
Building and Equipment Rent
 
costs increased $23 million primarily due to the inclusion of a positive $15 million contract settlement in 2002. The remainder of the increase relates to increased volumes.
Inland Transportation
 
expenses increased $10 million in the second quarter, as compared to the same period of 2002. The increase is primarily due to property additions, but was also negatively impacted by higher depreciation rates resulting from an asset life study. These increases were somewhat offset by a decrease in the depreciation of crossties due to the adoption of SFAS 143 in the first quarter of 2003.
Depreciation
 
expenses increased $24 million quarter-over-quarter. Fuel prices increased expense by $23 million, but the net impact on operating income was $8 million, as $15 million was recovered through fuel surcharges included in revenue.
Fuel
 
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS
 
OPERATING RESULTS
 
Revenue decreased $4 million, or 7 percent to $54 million for the 2003 quarter, compared to $58 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to the discontinuance of transpacific operations by one of Hong Kong's major customers.
 
Expenses decreased $5 million to $37 million for the second quarter, compared to $42 million for the 2002 quarter. Reduced labor and fringe and materials, supplies and other costs were also due to reduced volume at its Hong Kong operations.
 
Operating income increased $1 million for the 2003 quarter, as compared to the 2002 quarter, as strong performance in several operating units and aggressive cost focus more than offset the revenue decline in Hong Kong.
 
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
(1) Includes all consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries of CSX World Terminals.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) (All Per Share Amounts Assume Dilution)
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL MEASURES (Unaudited)
 
 
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
(1)
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
EBITDA (Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
This computation of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is presented because management believes it is a financial indicator used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies on the basis of operating performance. This is not considered to be better information than is available in the Company's publicly available reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and does not conform with generally accepted accounting principles. CSX owns a 42 percent undivided interest in Conrail Inc., and operates over a portion of the Conrail territory under the terms of an operating agreement. Conrail loans its excess cash to its owners under loan agreements at market interest rates. The calculation of EBITDA combines CSX and Conrail financial data for analytical purposes only and is not intended to suggest that CSX has control over Conrail's operations.
 
 
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENTESTIMATED
 
 


