FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20041028112644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the third quarter ended September 24, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, www.csx.com.
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 28, 2004

 
          , Fla., October 28, 2004  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported its financial results for the third quarter of 2004.
JACKSONVILLE
          "This is the third consecutive quarter in which CSX delivered consistent, continuous improvement in year-over-year Surface Transportation operating income," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman, president and chief executive officer. "In addition, it is the tenth consecutive quarter that the company has demonstrated revenue growth, reflecting the strength in the economy and the importance of rail transportation."
          Ward added, "We are encouraged by these results and remain committed to further improving CSX's service and costs. This will allow CSX to capitalize even more on both growth and yield."
          Third quarter 2004 net earnings include a favorable impact of $14 million, or 7 cents per share, associated with the net gain from the Conrail spin-off transaction slightly offset by management restructuring charges. The 2003 third quarter had a net loss of $103 million, or 48 cents per share, including after-tax charges of $219 million, or $1.02 per share, reflecting various expenses taken in that quarter for occupational, arbitration settlements and management restructuring. Excluding these 2003 and 2004 charges, CSX's consolidated 2004 third-quarter net earnings would have been $109 million, or 50 cents per share, versus $116 million, or 54 cents per share, in 2003. Improvements in Surface Transportation operating income were offset by a decline in non-core earnings.
          Surface Transportation operating income for the third quarter 2004 was $247 million versus a loss of $16 million in the prior year quarter. This year's third quarter includes a management restructuring charge of $3 million and 2003 includes the pretax effect of the occupational and management restructuring charges of $239 million. Adjusting for these charges in both years, operating income at our Surface Transportation business would have increased $27 million to $250 million in third quarter 2004, reflecting an increase of 12 percent.
          CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns the largest rail network in the eastern United States. CSX Transportation Inc. and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation
 
services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries.
          
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
          
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com.
 
 
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheets

 
Exhibit 99.2
500 Water Street 15th Floor, C900 Jacksonville, FL 32202 http://www. csx.com
Contact:
David Baggs (904) 359-4812
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2004 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
CSX REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS
     JACKSONVILLE, Fla., October 28, 2004 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported its financial results for the third quarter of 2004.
     "This is the third consecutive quarter in which CSX delivered consistent, continuous improvement in year-over-year Surface Transportation operating income," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman, president and chief executive officer. "In addition, it is the tenth consecutive quarter that the company has demonstrated revenue growth, reflecting the strength in the economy and the importance of rail transportation."
     Ward added, "We are encouraged by these results and remain committed to further improving CSX's service and costs. This will allow CSX to capitalize even more on both growth and yield."
     Third quarter 2004 net earnings include a favorable impact of $14 million, or 7 cents per share, associated with the net gain from the Conrail spin-off transaction slightly offset by management restructuring charges. The 2003 third quarter had a net loss of $103 million, or 48 cents per share, including after-tax charges of $219 million, or $1.02 per share, reflecting various expenses taken in that quarter for occupational, arbitration settlements and management restructuring. Excluding these 2003 and 2004 charges, CSX's consolidated 2004 third-quarter net earnings would have been $109 million, or 50 cents per share, versus $116 million, or 54 cents per share, in 2003. Improvements in Surface Transportation operating income were offset by a decline in non-core earnings.
     Surface Transportation operating income for the third quarter 2004 was $247 million versus a loss of $16 million in the prior year quarter. This year's third quarter includes a management restructuring charge of $3 million and 2003 includes the pretax effect of the occupational and management restructuring charges of $239 million. Adjusting for these charges in both years, operating income at our Surface Transportation business would have increased $27 million to $250 million in third quarter 2004, reflecting an increase of 12 percent.
     CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns the largest rail network in the eastern United States. CSX Transportation Inc. and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries.
     
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward- looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
     
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com.
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
(Dollars in Millions) Quarters Ended Sept. 24, 2004, and Sept. 26, 2003
Nine Months Ended Sept. 24, 2004, and Sept. 26, 2003
 
 
Merchandise
Merchandise showed improved yield in the third quarter. Overall revenue was up 6% while volume declined 1%. Most markets showed year-over-year improvement in revenue and revenue per car due to continued yield management efforts and the company's fuel surcharge program.
Automotive
North American light vehicle production declined by approximately 69,000 units, or roughly 2%, year over year. Inventory levels remain high at 63 days for most manufacturers, 69 days for the Big 3. Ongoing rail service issues have also had an impact on base business and have hindered growth initiatives. In addition, hurricane disruptions negatively impacted Florida sales, hindering manufacturers' efforts to reduce inventory.
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
Coal, coke, and iron ore experienced 10% revenue growth on 4% volume growth. This was driven by significant volume and revenue gains in export, metallurgical, utility north and industrial markets. All lines of business reflect favorable year over year revenue-per-car gains. However, certain mines experienced flooding in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan. This hampered production. Hurricanes further hampered service and volume growth.
Other
Other revenue for third quarter 2004 includes $16 million for FRT, a short-line railroad consolidated in 2004 pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46. Prior to 2004, FRT was accounted for under the equity method.
Intermodal
 
expenses increased $35 million during the third quarter of 2004 versus prior year quarter. This increase is attributable to the effects of inflation, along with increases in the Company's incentive compensation plan of $35 million and a $5 million increase resulting from the consolidation of FRT. These costs were partially offset by benefits realized from reduced staffing levels.
Labor and Fringe
expenses increased $37 million for the quarter versus last year's quarter. This is due to increased maintenance and crew travel costs, other operational costs and the consolidation of FRT. These costs were partially offset by decreases in cost of risk expenses.
Materials, Supplies and Other
decreased $23 million for the quarter primarily due to the Conrail spin-off transaction that occurred this quarter. This transaction effectively decreased rents paid to Conrail beginning in September, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSX.
Conrail Rents, Fees and Services
decreased $7 million versus the prior quarter as a result of favorable mix and volume, which was partially offset due to unfavorable asset utilization.
Building and Equipment Rent
decreased $2 million during the third quarter 2004 compared to the third quarter 2003 primarily due to lower trucking expenses.
Inland Transportation
expenses increased $30 million for the quarter versus prior year quarter. This increase is primarily due to higher fuel prices, net of hedging benefits.
Fuel
expenses increased $18 million for the third quarter 2004 due to an increased depreciation base, mainly attributable to the Conrail spin-off transaction, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSX.
Depreciation
decreased $229 million for the third quarter 2004 compared to the third quarter 2003. This is due to a third quarter 2003 charge of $229 million that was recorded in conjunction with the company's change in estimate for its casualty reserves to include an estimate of incurred but not reported claims for asbestos and other occupational injuries to be received over the next seven years.
Provision for Casualty Claims
decreased $7 million quarter over quarter. The third quarter 2004 charge represents the final costs related to management restructuring.
Restructuring Charge
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
OPERATING RESULTS
Revenue decreased $17 million to $42 million for the third quarter of 2004, compared to the third quarter of 2003, primarily due to the loss of a significant customer at its Hong Kong operations.
Expense decreased $5 million to $34 million for the third quarter of 2004, compared to the third quarter of 2003. This is attributable to lower expenses due to decreased customer volume in Hong Kong offset by a write-down of capitalized software.
Operating income decreased $12 million for the third quarter of 2004, as compared to the third quarter of 2003.
OPERATING STATISTICS
(a)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) (All Per Share Amounts Assume Dilution)
2002
2003
2004
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions)
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENT - - ESTIMATED
(a)


