FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20040127112930.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 26, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, www.csx.com.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 27, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Adam Hollingsworth
Contact:
(904) 359-3161
 
 
 
 
 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla, January 27, 2004  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported fourth quarter net income of $123 million, or 57 cents per share, including a net after-tax restructuring charge of $7 million or 4 cents per share. Excluding this charge, fourth quarter net income was $130 million, or 61 cents per share, versus $137 million or 64 cents, a year ago.
.
 
Surface Transportation revenue, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.90 billion versus $1.82 billion a year ago. The company's merchandise markets all showed strong year-over-year growth with revenue and volume up 6%. Coal and Intermodal volumes also increased year over year. Total CSX revenues for the quarter were $1.95 billion compared to $2.06 billion in 2002. The prior year includes revenue of $189 million from an affiliated company conveyed earlier this year.
 
"CSX saw tremendous revenue growth in the fourth quarter and throughout 2003. This growth reflects a strengthening economy, aggressive efforts to win modal conversions and innovative service products that better adapt to customer needs," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition, we strengthened our balance sheet through a reduced debt-to-equity ratio and free cash flow in excess of $300 million or 80% increase year over year."
 
"However, because these positive trends were offset by continued high operational costs, we remain keenly focused on improving our cost structure and restoring our higher service levels that we've seen in the recent past," Ward said.
 
Operating income for Surface Transportation was $239 million. Excluding the net restructuring charge mentioned above operating income was $251 million for the quarter, down from $281 million in the same quarter last year. On a consolidated basis excluding the net restructuring charge, operating income was $274 million versus $318 million in 2002.
 
RECAP OF RESULTS (reconciliation to GAAP):
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns one of the largest rail networks in the United States. CSX Transportation Inc., and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries.
 
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items; projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition,
 
conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
CSX REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER 2003 RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported fourth quarter net income of $123 million, or 57 cents per share, including a net after-tax restructuring charge of $7 million or 4 cents per share. Excluding this charge, fourth quarter net income was $130 million, or 61 cents per share, versus $137 million or 64 cents, a year ago.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., January 27, 2004
 
Surface Transportation revenue, which includes CSX's rail and intermodal units, was $1.90 billion versus $1.82 billion a year ago. The company's merchandise markets all showed strong year-over-year growth with revenue and volume up 6%. Coal and Intermodal volumes also increased year over year. Total CSX revenues for the quarter were $1.95 billion compared to $2.06 billion in 2002. The prior year includes revenue of $189 million from an affiliated company conveyed earlier this year.
 
"CSX saw tremendous revenue growth in the fourth quarter and throughout 2003. This growth reflects a strengthening economy, aggressive efforts to win modal conversions and innovative service products that better adapt to customer needs," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition, we strengthened our balance sheet through a reduced debt-to-equity ratio and free cash flow in excess of $300 million or 80% increase year over year."
 
"However, because these positive trends were offset by continued high operational costs, we remain keenly focused on improving our cost structure and restoring our higher service levels that we've seen in the recent past," Ward said.
 
Operating income for Surface Transportation was $239 million. Excluding the net restructuring charge mentioned above operating income was $251 million for the quarter, down from $281 million in the same quarter last year. On a consolidated basis excluding the net restructuring charge, operating income was $274 million versus $318 million in 2002.
 
RECAP OF RESULTS (reconciliation to GAAP):
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns one of the largest rail networks in the United States. CSX Transportation Inc., and its 34,000 employees provide rail transportation services over a 23,000 route-mile network in 23 states, the District of Columbia and two Canadian provinces. CSX Corporation also provides intermodal and global container terminal operations through other subsidiaries.
 
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; and (iv) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com.
 
 
500 Water Street
15th Floor, C900
Jacksonville, FL 32202
http://www. csx.com
 
Contact:
 
Peter Mills
(904) 359-3184
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2003 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merchandise
 
Merchandise showed strong growth in the fourth quarter with revenue and volume up 6 percent. Substantially all markets showed year-over-year improvements in revenue and volume.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automotive
 
In spite of a 200,000-unit year-over-year production decline, automotive revenues were up 4 percent year over year. Volume strength was driven by modal conversion. Revenue-per-car improvement was driven by length of haul extensions and price.
 
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
 
Coal, coke and iron ore experienced 3 percent volume growth due to gains in southern utilities and export markets. Steel related traffic showed renewed strength due to sourcing demand changes. Strength in export moves continued due to high European steam coal demand for electricity generation.
 
Intermodal
 
 
 
 
 
expenses were down $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, compared to the fourth quarter of 2002. Benefits of reduced staffing levels and reversal of the Company's incentive compensation accrual were offset by increased costs relating to wage inflation and system-related overtime.
Labor and Fringe
 
expenses increased $84 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 over fourth quarter 2002 due to increased personal injuries, derailment related costs and prior year property and sales tax reductions.
Materials, Supplies and Other
 
increased $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared to the same period last year due primarily to favorable tax settlements recorded in 2002 and increases in current year contractual rental arrangements for Shared Area facilities.
Conrail Rents, Fees and Services
 
increased $14 million in fourth quarter 2003 compared to fourth quarter 2002 as a result of automotive car hire reclaims and increased merchandise volumes and utilization.
Building and Equipment Rent
 
was down to $150 million from $161 million in the prior year quarter due to revised depreciation rates which were a result of the Company's life study and the effect of adopting SFAS 143 in the current year.
Depreciation
 
expenses increased $16 million in the fourth quarter 2003 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily due to increased fuel prices.
Fuel
 
of $12 million in the fourth quarter 2003 represents the cost of CSX's reorganization charges offset by reductions in 1991/1992 separation reserves.
Restructuring Charge - Net
 
 
 
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
 
 
OPERATING RESULTS
 
Revenue increased $1 million to $57 million for the 2003 quarter, compared to $56 million in the prior quarter, primarily due to increased volumes at its Hong Kong operations.
 
Expenses increased $8 million to $40 million for the fourth quarter, compared to $32 million for the 2002 quarter. This was due primarily to a $6 million gain on the divestiture of a portion of its Caucedo terminal ownership recorded as a reduction to miscellaneous expenses in 2002. Also, operating costs were higher at its Hong Kong Operations due to increased volumes in 2003.
 
Operating income decreased $7 million for the 2003 quarter, as compared to the 2002 quarter, due to the gain mentioned above as well as slightly higher overhead and administrative expenses in the 2003 quarter.
 
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) (All Per Share Amounts Assume Dilution)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
(1)
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in Millions)
 
This computation of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is presented because management believes it is a financial indicator used by investors and analysts to evaluate companies on the basis of operating performance. This is not considered to be better information than is available in the Company's publicly available reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and does not conform with generally accepted accounting principles. CSX owns a 42 percent undivided interest in Conrail Inc., and operates over a portion of the Conrail territory under the terms of an operating agreement. Conrail loans its excess cash to its owners under loan agreements at market interest rates. The calculation of EBITDA combines CSX and Conrail financial data for analytical purposes only and is not intended to suggest that CSX has control over Conrail's operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


