FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20041214165123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
SECTION 1- REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
ITEM 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
(a) On December 8, 2004, the Board of Directors amended the following employee benefit plans: (i) the Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Corporations; (ii) Special Retirement Plan of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Corporations; (iii) 2002 Deferred Compensation Plan of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Corporations; (iv) CSX Corporation 1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan; (v) CSX Corporation 1990 Stock Award Plan; and (vi) CSX Corporation 2002 Corporate Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plans"). The Plans are all nonqualified deferred and equity based compensation plans maintained by the Company and its affiliates for the benefit of its directors, executives, and certain other employees. The Plans were amended to preserve the deferred taxation of benefits as intended by the Plans as a result of new Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
     The Board of Directors also approved the adoption of new plans effective January 1, 2005 ("New Plans"). The New Plans will replace the Plans. The New Plans will be designed to comply with the requirements to be imposed under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations expected to be issued thereunder.
     The Board of Directors also amended the CSX Management Incentive Compensation Plan, the CSX Senior Executive Incentive Plan, the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan and the CSX Corporation Stock Plan for Directors to clarify the application of the deferral provisions.
(b) On December 13, 2004, the Company entered into a Special Employment Agreement with Andrew B. Fogarty. As previously disclosed, Mr. Fogarty is the President and Chief Executive Officer of CSX World Terminals LLC. The Special Employment Agreement provides for a minimum base salary, an annual bonus, long-term incentive award, a severance benefit and other customary benefits. In addition, the Special Employment Agreement provides for a special, discretionary transaction bonus upon the closing of a transaction relating to CSX World Terminals LLC.
     The Special Employment Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
(c) On December 13, 2004, the Company amended a change in control agreement with Tony L. Ingram. The Company filed the agreement as Exhibit 10.1 to its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2004. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the relationship of certain termination benefits payable upon a change in control on certain provisions of Mr. Ingram's March 15, 2004 offer letter.
     The foregoing description of Amendment No. 1 is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of employment agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 26, 2004), and Amendment No. 1 thereto, which, together
 
with the offer letter, are filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto, and are incorporated herein by reference.
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, Change in Fiscal Year
(a) On December 8, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Articles of Incorporation, effective December 8, 2004, to remove all provisions relating to the Company's Series A $7.00 Cumulative Preferred Stock, as all these shares have redeemed, and no more shares of this series may be issued.
     The Company's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(b) On December 8, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company amended the Bylaws of the Company, effective December 8, 2004, as follows:
     (i) Article I and Article II of the Bylaws were amended to permit the Company, its directors and shareholders to give notice, vote and take any other action using election transmission.
     (ii) Article I, Section 12 of the Bylaws was amended to have the same timeline for shareholder submission of director nominations and shareholder proposals, and the information required for such submissions. For any shareholder submission to be considered at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholder must give written notice of the shareholder submission to the Corporate Secretary and deliver such notice between ninety and one hundred and twenty days prior to the anniversary of the previous annual meeting.
     The notice for a director nomination must provide all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such person's written consent to be named in the proxy as a nominee and to serve as such director if elected.
     The notice for a shareholder proposal must contain a brief description of the proposal or business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, and disclose if the shareholder has any material interest in such business.
     (iii) Article III of the Bylaws was amended to require the Company's Compensation, Audit and Governance Committees to be comprised of three or more directors who each meet the independence requirements of The New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission as then in effect and applicable to the Company.
 
     (iv) Article IX of the Bylaws was added to provide that the share acquisition statute as set forth in Article 14.1 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act does not apply to the Company.
     The Company's Bylaws, as amended on December 8, 2004, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01  Other Events
     In addition to the actions set forth above, on December 8, 2004, the Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee took formal corporate action to terminate a number of plans that have not been used for the past three years. These plans include the CSX Corporation Stock Purchase and Loan Plan, the CSX Corporation Corporate Director Compensation Plan and the CSX Market Value Cash Plan.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Carolyn T. Sizemore
Carolyn T. Sizemore Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: December 14, 2004

 
Exhibit 3.1
     The name of the Corporation is "CSX Corporation".
     The purpose for which the Corporation is organized is to transact any lawful business not required to be specifically stated in the Articles of Incorporation.
     3.1 . The Corporation shall have authority to issue three hundred million (300,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, and twenty-five million (25,000,000) shares of Serial Preferred Stock, without par value.
Number and Designation
     3.2 . No holder of capital stock of the Corporation of any class shall have any preemptive right to subscribe to or purchase (i) any shares of capital stock of this Corporation, (ii) any securities convertible into such shares or (iii) any options, warrants or rights to purchase such shares or securities convertible into any such shares.
Preemptive Rights
     4.1 . The Board of Directors is hereby empowered by the adoption of an amendment to these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation to cause the Serial Preferred Stock of the Corporation to be issued in series with such of the variations permitted by clauses (a)-(h), both inclusive, of this Section 4.1 as shall have been fixed and determined by the Board of Directors with respect to any series prior to the issue of any shares of such series.
Issuance in Series
 
The shares of the Serial Preferred Stock of different series may vary as to:
     (a) the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, which shall be such as to distinguish the shares thereof from the shares of all other series and classes;
     (b) the rate of dividend, the time of payment and, if cumulative, the dates from which dividends shall be cumulative, and the extent of participation rights, if any;
     (c) any right to vote with holders of shares of any other series or class and any right to vote as a class, either generally or as a condition to specified corporate action;
     (d) the price at and the terms and conditions on which shares may be redeemed;
     (e) the amount payable upon shares in event of involuntary liquidation;
     (f) the amount payable upon shares in event of voluntary liquidation;
     (g) any sinking fund provisions for the redemption or purchase of shares; and
     (h) the terms and conditions on which shares may be converted, if the shares of any series are issued with the privilege of conversion.
     The shares of all series of Serial Preferred Stock shall be identical except as, within the limits set forth above in this Section 4.1, shall have been fixed and determined by the Board of Directors prior to the issuance thereof.
     4.2 . The holders of the Serial Preferred Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive, if and when declared payable by the Board of Directors, dividends in lawful money of the United States of America, at the dividend rate for such series, and not exceeding such rate except to the extent of any participation right. Such dividends shall be payable on such dates as shall be fixed for such series. Dividends, if cumulative and in arrears, shall not bear interest.
Dividends
     No dividends shall be declared or paid upon or set apart for the Common Stock or for stock of any other class hereafter created ranking junior to the Serial Preferred Stock in respect of dividends or assets (hereinafter called Junior Stock), and no shares of Serial Preferred Stock, Common Stock or Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise reacquired for a consideration, nor shall any funds be set aside for or paid to any sinking fund therefor, unless and until (i) full dividends on the outstanding Serial Preferred Stock at the dividend rate or rates therefor, together with the full additional amount required by any participation right, shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment with respect to all past dividend periods, to the extent that the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock are entitled to dividends with respect to any past dividend period, and the current dividend period, and (ii) all mandatory sinking fund payments that shall have become due in respect of any series of the Serial Preferred Stock shall have been made. Unless full dividends with respect to all past dividend periods on the outstanding Serial Preferred Stock at the dividend rate or rates therefor, to the extent the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock are entitled to dividends with respect to any particular past dividend period, together with the full additional amount required by any participation right, shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment and all mandatory sinking fund payments that shall have become due in respect of any series of the Serial Preferred Stock shall have been made, no distributions shall be made to the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock of any
 
series unless distributions are made to the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock of all series then outstanding in proportion to the aggregate amounts of the deficiencies in payments due to the respective series, and all payments shall be applied, first, to dividends accrued and in arrears, next, to any amount required by any participation right, and, finally, to mandatory sinking fund payments. The terms "current dividend period" and "past dividend period" mean, if two or more series of Serial Preferred Stock having different dividend periods are at the time outstanding, the current dividend period or any past dividend period, as the case may be, with respect to each such series.
     4.3 . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive, for each share thereof, the fixed liquidation price for such series, plus, in case such liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall have been voluntary, the fixed liquidation premium for such series, if any, together in all cases with a sum equal to all dividends accrued or in arrears thereon and the full additional amount required by any participation right, before any distribution of the assets shall be made to holders of the Common Stock or Junior Stock; but the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock shall be entitled to no further participation in such distribution. If, upon any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the assets distributable among the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to permit the payment of the full preferential amounts aforesaid, then such assets shall be distributed among the holders of the Serial Preferred Stock then outstanding ratably in proportion to the full preferential amounts to which they are respectively entitled. For the purposes of this Section 4.3, the expression "dividends accrued or in arrears" means, in respect of each share of the Serial Preferred Stock of any series at a particular time, an amount equal to the product of the rate of dividend per annum applicable to the shares of such series multiplied by the number of years and any fractional part of a year that shall have elapsed from the date when dividends on such shares became cumulative to the particular time in question less the total amount of dividends actually paid on the shares of such series or declared and set apart for payment thereon; , , that, if the dividends on such shares shall not be fully cumulative, such expression shall mean the dividends, if any, cumulative in respect of such shares for the period stated in the articles of serial designation creating such shares less all dividends paid in or with respect to such period.
Preference on Liquidation
provided
however
     5.1 . Subject to the provisions of law and the rights of holders of shares at the time outstanding of all classes of stock having prior rights as to dividends, the holders of Common Stock at the time outstanding shall be entitled to receive such dividends at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors may deem advisable.
Dividends
     5.2 . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up (whether voluntary or involuntary) of the Corporation, after the payment or provision for payment in full for all debts and other liabilities of the Corporation and all preferential amounts to which the holders of shares at the time outstanding of all classes of stock having prior rights thereto shall be entitled, the remaining net assets of the Corporation shall be distributed ratably among the holders of the shares at the time outstanding of Common Stock.
Liquidation
     5.3 . The holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote per share on all matters.
Voting Rights
 
     The number of directors shall be fixed by the By-Laws or, in the absence of a By-law fixing the number, the number shall be four.
     7.1 . For purposes of this Article the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
          (a) "" means this Corporation, including Chessie System, Inc. and Seaboard Coast Line Industries, Inc. and no other predecessor entity or other legal entity;
Corporation
          (b) "" include counsel fees, expert witness fees, and costs of investigation, litigation and appeal, as well as any amounts expended in asserting a claim for indemnification;
expenses
          (c) "" means the obligation to pay a judgment, settlement, penalty, fine, or other such obligation, including, without limitation, any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan;
liability
          (d) "" means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise;
legal entity
          (e) "" means a legal entity the existence of which ceased upon its acquisition by the Corporation in a merger or otherwise; and
predecessor entity
          (f) "" means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, proceeding or appeal whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative and whether formal or informal.
proceeding
     7.2 . In every instance permitted by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, as it exists on the date hereof or may hereafter be amended, the liability of a director or officer of the Corporation to the Corporation or its shareholders arising out of a single transaction, occurrence or course of conduct shall be limited to one dollar.
Limit on Liability
     7.3 . The Corporation shall indemnify any individual who is, was or is threatened to be made a party to a proceeding (including a proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation) because such individual is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or because such individual is or was serving the Corporation or any other legal entity in any capacity at the request of the Corporation, against all liabilities and reasonable expenses incurred in the proceeding except such liabilities and expenses as are incurred because of such individual's willful misconduct or knowing violation of the criminal law. Service as a director or officer of a legal entity controlled by the Corporation shall be deemed service at the request of the Corporation. The determination that indemnification under this
Indemnification of Directors and Officers
 
Section 7.3 is permissible and the evaluation as to the reasonableness of expenses in a specific case shall be made, in the case of a director, as provided by law, and in the case of an officer, as provided in Section 7.4 of this Article; provided, however, that if a majority of the directors of the Corporation has changed after the date after the date of the alleged conduct giving rise to a claim for indemnification, such determination and evaluation shall, at the option of the person claiming indemnification, be made by special legal counsel agreed upon by the Board of Directors and such person. Unless a determination has been made that indemnification is not permissible, the Corporation shall make advances and reimbursements for expenses incurred by a director or officer in a proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking from such director or officer to repay the same if it is ultimately determined that such director or officer is not entitled to indemnification. Such undertaking shall be an unlimited, unsecured general obligation of the director or officer and shall be accepted without reference to such director's or officer's ability to make repayment. The termination of a proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent shall not of itself create a presumption that a director or officer acted in such a manner as to make such director or officer ineligible for indemnification. The Corporation is authorized to contract in advance to indemnify and make advances and reimbursements for expenses to any of its directors or officers to the same extent provided in this Section 7.3.
nolo
contendere
     7.4 . The Corporation may, to a lesser extent or to the same extent that it is required to provide indemnification and make advances and reimbursements for expenses to its directors and officers pursuant to Section 7.3 of this Article, provide indemnification and make advances and reimbursements for expenses to its employees and agents, the directors, officers, employees and agents of its subsidiaries and predecessor entities, and any person serving any other legal entity in any capacity at the request of the Corporation, and may contract in advance to do so. The determination that indemnification under this Section 7.4 is permissible, the authorization of such indemnification and the evaluation as to the reasonableness of expenses in a specific case shall be made as authorized from time to time by general or specific action of the Board of Directors, which action may be taken before or after a claim for indemnification is made, or as otherwise provided by law. No person's rights under Section 7.3 of this Article shall be limited by the provisions of this Section 7.4.
Indemnification of Others
     7.5 . The rights of each person entitled to indemnification under this Article shall inure to the benefit of such person's heirs, executors and administrators. Special legal counsel selected to make determinations under this Article may be counsel for the Corporation. Indemnification pursuant to this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right of indemnification to which any person may be entitled, including indemnification pursuant to a valid contract, indemnification by legal entities other than the Corporation and indemnification under policies of insurance purchased and maintained by the Corporation or others. However, no person shall be entitled to indemnification by the Corporation to the extent such person is indemnified by another, including an insurer. The Corporation is authorized to purchase and maintain insurance against any liability it may have under this Article or to protect any of the persons named above against any liability arising from their service to the Corporation or any other legal entity at the request of the Corporation regardless of the Corporation's power to indemnify against such liability. The provisions of this Article shall not be deemed to preclude the Corporation from entering into contracts otherwise permitted by law with any individuals or legal entities, including those named above. If any provision of this Article or its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this Article, and to this end the provisions of this Article are severable.
Miscellaneous
     7.6 . The provisions of this Article shall be applicable from and after its adoption even though some or all of the underlying conduct or events relating to a proceeding
Application; Amendments
 
may have occurred before its adoption. No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article shall diminish the rights provided hereunder to any person arising from conduct or events occurring before the adoption of such amendment, modification or repeal.
     8.1 . On October 31, 1980 (the "Merger Date"), the outstanding shares of Chessie Systems, Inc. ("Chessie") and Seaboard Coast Line Industries, Inc. ("Industries") were converted by operation of law into shares of the Corporation.
Conversion of Shares
     8.2 . No holder of a Chessie or Industries common stock certificate shall be entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation or to receive any dividends from the Corporation until surrender of his certificate in exchange for a certificate for shares of the Corporation's Common Stock. Upon such surrender, there shall be paid to the holder the amount of dividends (without interest thereon) that have theretofore become payable, but that have not been paid by reason of the foregoing, with respect to the number of whole shares of the Corporation's Common Stock represented by the certificates issued in exchange. The Corporation shall, however, be entitled after the Merger Date to treat the certificates of outstanding common stock of Chessie and Industries as evidencing the ownership of the number of full shares of the Corporation's Common Stock into which the Chessie and Industries shares, represented by such certificates, shall have been converted, notwithstanding the failure to surrender such certificates.
Failure to Surrender Shares
     As to each voting group entitled to vote on an amendment or restatement of these Articles of Incorporation the vote required for approval shall be (i) the vote required by the terms of these Articles of Incorporation, as amended or as restated from time to time, if such terms specifically require the approval of more than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast thereon by such voting group; or (ii) if clause (i) of this Article is not applicable, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast thereon.

 
Exhibit 3.2
     SECTION 1. . The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date in March, April, May or June as the Board of Directors (hereinafter sometimes the "Board") may designate, either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Annual Meeting
     SECTION 2. . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called from time to time by a majority of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. Special meetings shall be held solely for the purposes specified in the notice of meeting.
Special Meetings
     SECTION 3. . The time and place of each meeting of the shareholders shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Time and Place
     SECTION 4. . The holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on any matter, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum as to that matter at any meeting of the shareholders. If less than a quorum shall be in attendance at the time for which a meeting shall have been called, the meeting may be adjourned from time to time until a quorum is obtained by (a) the chairman of such meeting or (b) a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy. No additional notice of the meeting shall be required other than by announcement at the meeting unless a new record date is fixed pursuant to Section 8. Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, each shareholder shall be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share entitled to vote then outstanding and registered in his or her name on the books of the Corporation.
Quorum and Voting
     SECTION 5. . A shareholder or a shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the shareholder or such shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact or authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such shareholder's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
Written Authorization
     SECTION 6. . The President or the Corporate Secretary may approve procedures to enable a shareholder or a shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact to authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, internet transmission,
Electronic Authorization
 
telephone transmission or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which the inspectors of election can determine that the transmission was authorized by the shareholder or the shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact. If it is determined that such transmissions are valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 6 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
     SECTION 7. . Except as otherwise required by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, notice shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the shareholder at the shareholder's address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Notice of meetings may be waived in accordance with law. Any previously scheduled meeting of the shareholders may be postponed, by resolution of the Board of Directors at any time prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of shareholders.
Notice of Meeting
     (b) Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to shareholders, any notice to shareholders given by the Corporation, under any provision of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the shareholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the shareholder by written notice to the Corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if (i) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with such consent and (ii) such inability becomes known to the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Notice given pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed given: (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice; (3) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the shareholder of such specific posting when such notice is directed to the record address of the shareholder or to such other address at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice, upon the later of such posting or the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when consented to by the shareholder.
     SECTION 8. . For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any
Record Date
 
other proper purpose, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than 70 days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring such determination of shareholders, is to be taken. If no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date on which notices of the meeting are mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of shareholders. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
     SECTION 9. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside over all meetings of the shareholders. If he or she is not present, or if there is none in office, the President shall preside. If the Chairman of the Board and the President are not present, a Vice President shall preside, or, if none be present, a chairman shall be elected by the meeting. The Corporate Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, if he or she is present. If he or she is not present, the chairman shall appoint a secretary of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting, at his or her discretion, may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum, and may determine the date, time and place that a meeting so adjourned is to reconvene. The chairman of the meeting shall prescribe rules of procedure for the meeting and shall determine the time reasonably allotted to each speaker at the meeting.
Conduct of Meeting
     SECTION 10. . An appropriate number of inspectors for any meeting of shareholders may be appointed by the chairman of such meeting. Inspectors so appointed, will receive and take charge of proxies and ballots, and will decide all questions as to the qualifications of voters, validity of proxies and ballots, and the number of votes properly cast.
Inspectors
     SECTION 11. .
Advance Notice of Nominations and Shareholder Business
          (a) .
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
               (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders only (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any shareholder of the Corporation who was a shareholder of record of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting at the time the notice provided for in this Section 11 is delivered to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
               (ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 11, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for shareholder
 
action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to the Corporate Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period, or extend any time period, for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth: (A) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise, required in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as such a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (2) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner, (3) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (4) a representation whether the shareholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group that intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from shareholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a shareholder if the shareholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such shareholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
               (iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least
 
100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 11 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Corporate Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          (b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any shareholder of the Corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 11 is delivered to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such shareholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons, as the case may be, for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 11 is delivered to the Corporate Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting, and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period, or extend any time period, for giving of a shareholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
          (c) .
General
               (i) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11 shall be eligible at an annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (A) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11 (including whether the shareholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such shareholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such shareholder's representation as required by clause (a)(ii)(C) of this Section 11) and (B) to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, if the shareholder (or a designated representative of the shareholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed
 
business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.
               (ii) For purposes of this Section 11, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
               (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 11. Nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to affect any rights (A) of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (B) of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Articles of Incorporation.
     SECTION 1. . The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors, and, except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all of the powers of the Corporation shall be vested in such Board.
General Powers
     SECTION 2. . The Board of Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the shareholders or at any special meeting held in lieu thereof. The number of Directors shall be 11. This number may be increased or decreased at any time by amendment of these Bylaws, but shall never be a number less than four. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director, nor shall any Director be eligible for reelection, if he or she shall have reached the age of 70 years at the time of such election or reelection, except that the Board, in its sole discretion, may waive such ineligibility for a period not to exceed one year. Directors who are or have been employees of the Corporation or its affiliates, including current or former Chief Executive Officers, shall retire from the Board immediately upon leaving active service, or reaching age 65, whichever occurs first, except that the Board, in its sole discretion, may extend the eligibility of the Chairman of the Board to continue as a Director and, in its discretion, also as Chairman of the Board for up to two years after leaving active service.
Number and Election
     SECTION 3. . A majority of the Directors shall constitute a quorum. Less than a quorum may adjourn the meeting to a fixed time and place, no further notice of any adjourned meeting being required.
Quorum
     SECTION 4. . The shareholders at any meeting called for such purpose, by a vote of the holders of a majority of all the shares of capital stock at the time outstanding and having voting power, may remove any Director, with or without cause, and fill any vacancy. Vacancies arising among the Directors, including a vacancy resulting from an
Removal and Vacancies
 
increase by the Board of Directors in the number of directors, so long as the increase so created is not more than 30 percent of the number of Directors then authorized to serve on the Board, may be filled by the remaining Directors, though less than a quorum of the Board, unless sooner filled by the shareholders. The term of office of any Director so elected by the Board of Directors shall expire at the next shareholders' meeting at which Directors are elected.
     SECTION 5. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held on such dates, at such places and at such times as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place and at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, or of any three members of the Board of Directors.
Meetings and Notices
          (b) Notice of any meetings shall be given by mailing or delivering such notice to each Director at the Director's residence or business address or by telephone or electronic transmission as set forth in this Section 5(b) not less than 24 hours before the meeting. Notice of the date, time, place or purpose of a regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors may be given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the Director to whom the notice is given. Any such consent of a Director shall be revocable by the Director by written notice to the Corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if (i) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with such consent and (ii) such inability becomes known to the Corporate Secretary or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Notice given by electronic transmission shall be deemed given: (a) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the Director has consented to receive notice; (b) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the Director has consented to receive notice; (c) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the Director of such specific posting when such notice is directed to an address at which the Director has consented to receive notice, upon the later of such posting or the giving of such separate notice; and (d) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when consented to by the Director. Any notice shall state the time and place of the meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all of the Directors are present or those not present waive notice before or after the meeting.
          (c) Any action required to be taken at a meeting of the Board may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing setting forth the action to be taken, shall be signed by all the Directors in counterpart or otherwise and filed with the Corporate Secretary. Such consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote. For purposes of this Section 5(c), such written consent and the signing thereof may be accomplished by one or more electronic transmissions.
          (d) Any action required to be taken at a meeting of the Board may be taken by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment whereby all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
 
     SECTION 6. . By resolution of the Board, Directors may be compensated for services as Directors. Nothing herein shall preclude Directors from serving the Corporation in other capacities and receiving compensation for such other services.
Compensation
     SECTION 1. . The Board of Directors may designate an Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee, which shall consist of three or more Directors. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors, except as may be prohibited by Section 13.1-689 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, as it may from time to time be amended. The Executive Committee shall keep a full and accurate record of its proceedings at each meeting and report the same at the next meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee, an acting chairman shall be designated by the Executive Committee to preside at such meeting.
Executive Committee
     SECTION 2. . The Board of Directors, at its regular annual meeting, shall designate a Compensation Committee, which shall consist of three or more Directors each of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of The New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") as then in effect and applicable to the Corporation. The responsibilities of the Compensation Committee shall be set forth in the Committee's Charter as approved by the Board of Directors.
Compensation Committee
     The Compensation Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure. The Committee shall keep minutes of its meetings, and all action taken by it shall be reported to the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3. . The Board of Directors, at its regular annual meeting, shall designate an Audit Committee, which shall consist of three or more Directors each of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the NYSE and the SEC, as then in effect and applicable to the Corporation. The responsibilities of the Audit Committee shall be set forth in the Committee's Charter as approved by the Board of Directors.
Audit Committee
     The Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure. The Committee shall keep minutes of all of its meetings and all action taken by it shall be reported to the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 4. . The Board of Directors, at its regular annual meeting, shall designate a Governance Committee, which shall consist of three or more Directors each of whom shall satisfy the independence requirements of the NYSE and the SEC, as then in effect and applicable to the Corporation. The responsibilities of the Governance Committee shall be set forth in the Committee's Charter as approved by the Board of Directors.
Governance Committee
     The Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure. The Committee shall keep minutes of all of its meetings and all action taken by it shall be reported to the Board of Directors.
 
     SECTION 5. . The Board of Directors may establish such other committees as it deems appropriate, each committee consisting of at least two Directors whose designation and terms of office shall be by resolution of the Board.
Other Committees
     SECTION 6. . Meetings of a committee may be called at any time by the Chairman of such committee or by a majority of the members of such committee. Notice of any meeting shall be given in the manner provided by Section 5 of Article II. Meetings may be held without notice if all of the members of the committee are present or those not present waive notice before or after the meeting. Action may be taken by a committee without a meeting or at a meeting established by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment in the manner provided by Section 5 of Article II.
Committee Meetings
     SECTION 7. . A majority of the members of any committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the affirmative vote of the majority of those present shall be necessary for any action by a committee. In the absence of the chairman of a committee, the acting chairman shall be designated by the remaining members of the committee to preside at such meeting.
Quorum
     SECTION 8. . Members of any committee shall be designated as above provided and shall hold office until their successors are designated by the Board of Directors or until such committee is dissolved by the Board of Directors.
Term of Office
     SECTION 9. . Any member of a committee may resign at any time by giving written notice of his intention to do so to the Chairman of the Board or the Corporate Secretary, or may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Board of Directors.
Resignation and Removal
     SECTION 10. . Any vacancy occurring in a committee resulting from any cause whatever shall be filled by a majority of the number of Directors fixed by these Bylaws.
Vacancies
     SECTION 1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Corporate Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers (including, without limitation, a Chief Financial Officer and a Chief Legal Officer) as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article V. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board or by any committee thereof or the Chairman of the Board. The Board may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board may appoint, such other officers (including, without limitation, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Elected Officers
 
Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board, as the case may be. Any person may be elected to more than one office.
     SECTION 2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the shareholders. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified, but any officer may be removed from office at any time by the Board of Directors or, except in the case of any officer or agent elected by the Board, by the Chairman of the Board. Such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person so removed.
Election and Term of Office
     SECTION 3. . The officers of the Corporation shall have such duties as generally pertain to their offices, respectively, as well as such powers and duties as are prescribed by law or are hereinafter provided or as from time to time shall be conferred by the Board of Directors, a committee of the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors may require any officer to give such bond for the faithful performance of his or her duties as the Board may see fit.
Duties
     SECTION 4. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office that may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board may sign and execute in the name of the Corporation share certificates, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments except in cases where the signing and the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or shall be required by law otherwise to be signed or executed. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the shareholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman, and any person acting in his or her stead shall, at all times and so long as the Corporation engages in business for which it must qualify as a citizen of the United States under Section 2 of the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, or any other or successor statutory provision, be a citizen of the United States.
Chairman of the Board
     SECTION 5. . The President shall act in a general executive capacity and shall assist the Chairman of the Board in the administration and operation of the Corporation's business and general supervision of its policies and affairs. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of shareholders and of the Board. The President may sign and execute in the name of the Corporation share certificates, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments except in cases where the signing and the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or shall be required by law otherwise to be signed or executed. The President, and any person acting in his stead, shall, at all times and so long as the Corporation engages in business for which it must qualify as
President
 
a citizen of the United States under Section 2 of the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, or any other or successor statutory provision, be a citizen of the United States.
     SECTION 6. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Chairman of the Board, or the Boards of Directors. Any Vice President may sign and execute in the name of the Corporation deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized, except where the signing and execution of such documents shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or shall be required by law otherwise to be signed or executed.
Vice Presidents
     SECTION 7. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the performance of all duties incident to the office of Treasurer. The Treasurer such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Financial Officer. The Treasurer may sign and execute in the name of the Corporation share certificates, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, except in cases where the signing and the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or shall be required by law otherwise to be signed or executed.
Treasurer
     SECTION 8. . The Corporate Secretary shall attend all meetings of the shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the Executive Committee and record their proceedings, unless a temporary secretary be appointed. When requested, the Corporate Secretary shall also act as secretary of the meetings of the other Committees of the Board. He or she shall give due notice as required of all meetings of the shareholders, Directors, Executive Committee and the other Committees of the Board. He or she shall keep or cause to be kept at a place or places required by law a record of the shareholders of the Corporation, giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number, class, and series of the shares held by each. He or she shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation, and of all records, contracts, leases, and other papers and documents of the Corporation, unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. In case of the Secretary's absence or incapacity, the Chairman of the Board may designate an Assistant Secretary or other appropriate officer to perform the duties of the Secretary.
Corporate Secretary
     SECTION 9. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. Any officer or agent appointed by the Chairman of the Board may be removed by him or her whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
 
     SECTION 10. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board for the unexpired portion of the term. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board.
Vacancies
     The money and negotiable instruments of the Corporation shall be kept in such bank or banks as the Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer shall from time to time direct or approve. All checks and other instruments for the disbursement of funds shall be executed manually or by facsimile by such officers or agents of the Corporation as may be authorized by the Board of Directors.
     The seal of the Corporation, of which there may be any number of counterparts, shall be circular in form and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words, "Corporate Seal Virginia." The Board may also authorize to be used, as the seal of the Corporation, any facsimile thereof.
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin immediately after midnight of the last Friday of December, and shall end at midnight on the last Friday of December of each calendar year.
     These Bylaws may be amended or repealed at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by the vote of a majority of the Directors present. They may also be repealed or changed, and new Bylaws made, by the shareholders, provided notice of the proposal to take such action shall have been given in the notice of the meeting.
 
     Article 14.1 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act ("Control Share Acquisitions") shall not apply to acquisitions of shares of stock of the Corporation.
Jacksonville, FL December 8, 2004

 
Exhibit 10.1
     AGREEMENT by and between CSX Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the "Company" or "CSX")), and Andrew B. Fogarty (the "Executive"), dated as of the 13th day of December, 2004.
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive wish to set forth the terms and conditions of the Executive's continued employment with the Company or its Affiliated Companies (as hereafter defined) for the term hereof;
     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
     1. . The Company shall employ the Executive, and the Executive shall serve the Company, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, for the Employment Period as defined in this Paragraph 1. The "Employment Period" shall mean the period from January 1, 2004 until the later of May 31, 2005 or a reasonable period thereafter as determined by the Chief Executive Officer of CSX after the Closing of a Transaction (as defined below), unless this Agreement is terminated earlier pursuant to its terms. The parties agree further, however, that if the "Effective Date," as defined in the Employment Agreement dated November 1, 2000, between the Executive and the Company (the "Change of Control Agreement"), should occur during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall immediately terminate and be superseded in its entirety by the Change of Control Agreement.
Employment Period
     2. .
Position and Duties
          (a) During the Employment Period, the Executive shall serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of CSX World Terminals, LLC ("CSXWT") or in any
 
other position requested of him by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with the status, offices, titles, reporting requirements, authority, duties and responsibilities appropriate to that position.
          (b) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, Executive agrees during normal business hours to diligently discharge the business and affairs of CSXWT and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic, or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements, or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company and CSXWT in accordance with this Agreement.
     3. .
Compensation
          (a) . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive a minimum base salary equal to his annual base salary as of the date hereof (the "Base Salary"), payable in accordance with the Company's customary payroll practices. During the Employment Period, the Base Salary may be reviewed for possible increases. Any increase in the Base Salary shall not limit or reduce any other obligation of the Company under this Agreement. The Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase, and the term "Base Salary' shall thereafter refer to the Base Salary as so increased. Notwithstanding the preceding,
Base Salary
 
an across-the-board reduction in Base Salary applicable to all similarly situated peer executives implemented out of extreme business necessity shall not be a violation of this section.
          (b) . In addition to the Base Salary, the Executive shall have the opportunity to earn, for each fiscal year that is included in the Employment Period, annual bonuses based upon a target incentive equal to 90% of the Executive's Base Salary, on the same terms and conditions established thereunder for the Executive and his peer executives. Any annual bonuses so earned (each, an "Annual Bonus") shall be paid to the Executive at the same time as his peer executives receive their bonuses; provided, that the Annual Bonus for the fiscal year in which the Employment Period terminates shall equal the amount that would have been payable to the Executive for the year of termination multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction shall be the number of months before the end of the fiscal year of the Employment Period and the denominator of the fraction shall be 12.
Annual Bonus
          (c) . The Executive shall be eligible for a Long Term Incentive Program bonus of 15,000 units for 2004 and 15,000 units for 2005, pursuant to the terms of such program.
Long Term Incentive Program
          (d) . Upon termination of the Employment Period by the Company (other than for Cause, as defined below), the Executive will be paid a separation payment in the amount of one year of the Executive's Base Salary as of the date of termination ("Separation Payment").
Separation Payment
          (e) . During the Employment Period: (i) the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs of the Company to the same extent as his peer executives; (ii) the Executive and/or the
Other Benefits
 
Executive's family, as applicable, shall be eligible for participation in, and shall receive all benefits under, all welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by the Company (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life insurance, group life insurance, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the same extent as his peer executives; (iii) the Executive shall be entitled to perquisites and fringe benefits to the same extent and on the same basis as his peer executives; and (iv) tax and financial planning benefits shall also be made available to the Executive to the same extent and on the same basis as his peer executives for each year of the Employment Period hereof as well as the year after the year of the Executive's retirement.
          (f) . The Executive has been designated to participate in a Transaction Bonus Program involving possible strategic initiatives related to CSXWT being considered by CSX Senior Management. The amount of the actual Special Transaction Bonus to be paid will be discretionary and determined solely by the Chief Executive Officer of CSX. In applying this discretion, the Chief Executive Officer of CSX will consider the value received by CSX from a third-party buyer ("Buyer") compared to the estimates provided by the investment banking firm(s) representing CSX, as a result of a sale of all, or substantially all, of the assets of CSXWT, including a sale of the stock of CSXWT's parent company, SL Service, Inc. (the "Transaction"). This amount is payable by the Company or an affiliated company, subject to applicable withholdings, as soon as practicable following the Closing of a Transaction (the "Special Transaction Bonus").
Special Transaction Bonus
          The Special Transaction Bonus will be paid only if there is a Closing of a Transaction by December 31, 2005. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Closing" means one or more transactions to sell or dispose of all, or substantially all, of the assets of CSXWT which
 
must be completed prior to December 31, 2005. For the avoidance of doubt, if a Closing of one or more transactions to sell or dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of CSXWT does not occur by December 31, 2005, the Special Transaction Bonus will expire without payment.
          In order to receive a payment, the Executive must either (i) be employed by CSXWT, CSX, the Buyer or any affiliate of the Buyer on the Payment Date or (ii) have a "Qualifying Termination" before the payment date. A Qualifying Termination means the termination of the Executive's employment under any of the following circumstances:
 
          In the event that the Executive's employment is involuntarily terminated (including termination to allow him to accept employment with the Buyer) because his employment is eliminated by the Company in conjunction with or subsequent to the closing of a sale or disposition of less than substantially all of CSXWT, the Executive's Special Transaction Bonus will be paid as soon as practicable following the closing of the transaction.
     4. .
Termination of Employment
          (a) . The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to the Executive written notice in accordance with Section 11(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the Executive's becoming disabled within the meaning of the long-term disability plan of the Company covering the Executive.
Death or Disability
 
          (b) . The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for Cause or without Cause. "Cause" means (i) the willful and continued failure of the Executive to substantially perform the Executive's duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from Disability), after the Chief Executive Officer of CSX delivers to the Executive a written demand for substantial performance that specifically identifies the manner in which the Chief Executive Officer believes that the Executive has not substantially performed the Executive's duties, or (ii) the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company or its affiliates by the Executive.
By the Company
          (c) . The Executive may terminate employment during the Employment Period for Good Reason or without Good Reason. A termination for "Good Reason" means termination by the Executive within 60 days after, and as a result of: (i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties materially inconsistent with Section 2(a) of this Agreement, or any other action by the Company that results in a material diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or (ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any provision of Section 3 of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure that is not taken in bad faith and is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof from the Executive.
Good Reason
          (d) . Any termination of the Executive's employment by the Company or by the Executive shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 10(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent
Notice of Termination
 
applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
          (e) . The "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date on which the Notice of Termination is given or any date within thirty (30) days after the giving of such Notice of Termination as is specified therein, as the case may be, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Notice of Termination is given, and (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Date of Termination
     5. . If, during the Employment Period, the Company terminates the Executive's employment, other than for Cause or for death or Disability, or the Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the amounts described in this Paragraph 5(a) to the Executive. The payments
Obligations of the Company upon Termination during the Employment Period. (a) Other Than for Cause, Death or Disability; Good Reason
 
provided pursuant to this Paragraph 5(a) are intended as liquidated damages for a termination of the Executive's employment by the Company other than for Cause, death or Disability, or for the actions of the Company leading to a termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be the sole and exclusive remedy therefor, and shall be paid only upon receipt by the Company from the Executive of an executed release and waiver, satisfactory in form and in substance to the Company, of all claims against the Company. The amounts to be paid as described herein are:
 
          (b) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death or Disability during the Employment Period, the Company shall pay to the Executive or the Executive's estate or legal representative, as applicable, (i) the Executive's accrued but unpaid Base Salary up to the Date of Termination (the "Accrued Obligations") in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination, and (ii) the Annual Bonus, if any, earned for any fiscal year that begins before and ends on or after the Date of Termination, at such time as the annual bonuses for the Executive's peer executives are paid, and any earned but unpaid Special Transaction Bonus due Executive under Section 3(f), and the Company shall have no further obligations under this Agreement.
Death or Disability
          (c) . If the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause during the Employment Period, the Company shall pay the Executive the Accrued Obligations in a lump sum within 30 days after the Date of Termination, and the Company shall have no further obligations under this Agreement. If the Executive voluntarily terminates employment during the Employment Period, other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay to the Executive the Accrued Obligations in
Cause; Other than for Good Reason
 
a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination, and the Company shall have no further obligations under this Agreement.
     6. .
Non-exclusivity of Rights; Confirmation of Retirement Benefits
          (a) Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, nothing herein shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company or any other company controlled by, controlling, or under common control with, the Company (collectively, the "Affiliated Companies") for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Paragraph 10(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or any Affiliated Company. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Company or any of its Affiliated Companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive receives payments and benefits pursuant to Paragraphs 5(a) of this Agreement, the Executive shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of the Company and the Affiliated Companies.
          (b) . It is expressly acknowledged and agreed that nothing in this Agreement shall affect the Executive's entitlements to retirement benefits under the Company's retirement plans and programs from and after his retirement from employment with the Company in accordance with their terms, including without limitation: (i) retiree health
Retirement Benefits
 
care plans; (ii) the Tax Savings Thrift Plan for Employees of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Companies; (iii) the CSX Corporation Supplementary Savings and Incentive Award Deferral Plan and the 2002 Deferred Compensation Plan ; (iv) the CSX life insurance programs; (v) the CSX option plans; and (vi) the Supplemental Retirement Plan and the Special Retirement Plan (including without limitation the Executive's right to receive lump sum benefits thereunder). Any Special Transaction Bonus paid pursuant to Section 3(f) shall not be taken into account in calculating any pension or retirement benefit due Executive. Notwithstanding the preceding, in the event no Annual Bonus is paid to Executive under Section 3(b) for any fiscal year in the Employment Period, such calculation shall take into account an amount that would have been paid to Executive if he had been a corporate employee of the Company during such fiscal year.
     7. . The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment.
Full Settlement
     8. .
Confidential Information; No-Raid; Noncompetition; Inventions
          (a) The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity, for the benefit of the Company and the Affiliated Companies, all confidential or proprietary information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any Affiliated Company and their respective businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information
 
concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, research, secret data, costs or names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale), which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's employment by the Company or any Affiliated Company and/or his service as a consultant hereunder, and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Section 8(a)) ("Confidential Information"). For the purposes of this Section 8(a), information shall not be deemed to be publicly available merely because it is embraced by general disclosures or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Executive's employment with the Company or any Affiliated Company, except with the prior written consent of the Company, or such Affiliated Company, as applicable, or as otherwise required by law or legal process. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or one or more Affiliated Company, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the Company or such Affiliated Company, as applicable, upon termination of the Executive's employment. The Executive also agrees that through the end of the Noncompetition Period (as defined below), he will advise any prospective employer or client that meets any of the following criteria of the confidentiality restrictions set forth in this Agreement and state in writing to such prospective employer or client that his employment or provision of services will not violate these provisions, and will deliver a copy of such statement to the Company. Such a statement shall be required for any prospective employer or client that is (i) engaged in the railroad, ocean transportation and marine terminal operations or intermodal
 
transportation businesses; (ii) a customer representing more than 1% of the revenues of either CSX Transportation, Inc., SL Service, Inc. or its affiliates and business units or CSX Intermodal, Inc.; or (iii) affiliated with the Norfolk Southern Corporation. In addition, to the extent that the Executive is a party to any other agreement relating to confidential information, inventions or similar matters with the Company, the Executive shall continue to comply with the provisions of such agreements.
          (b) The Executive agrees that he will not, at any time during the Noncompetition Period (as defined in Section 8(c) below), without the prior written consent of the Company or the applicable Affiliated Company, as applicable, directly or indirectly employ, or solicit the employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is at any time during the previous twelve (12) months an employee, representative, officer or director of the Company or any Affiliated Company (except for such employment by the Company or any Affiliated Company); provided, however, that a public advertisement not specifically targeted at the employees of the Company shall not be deemed to be a solicitation for purposes of this provision.
          (c) During the Noncompetition Period (as defined below), the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, engage in or become associated with a Competitive Activity. For purposes of this Section 9: (i) the "Noncompetition Period" means the period from the date of this Agreement through two years following the termination of the Employment Period; (ii) a "Competitive Activity" means any business or other endeavor, in any county of any state of the United States or a comparable jurisdiction in Canada or any other country, directly or indirectly for a Class I railroad operating in North America; and (iii) the Executive shall be considered to have become
 
"associated with a Competitive Activity" if the Executive becomes directly or indirectly involved as an owner, principal, employee, officer, director, independent contractor, representative, stockholder, financial backer, agent, partner, advisor, lender, or in any other individual or representative capacity with any individual, partnership, corporation or other organization that is engaged in a Competitive Activity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive may make and retain investments in less than 0.5% of the equity of any entity engaged in a Competitive Activity, if such equity is listed on a national securities exchange or regularly traded in an over-the-counter market. Executive acknowledges that he deems such restrictions to be reasonable and that such restrictions will not prevent him from providing for his family during the Noncompetition Period.
          (d) All plans, discoveries and improvements, whether patentable or unpatentable, made or devised by the Executive, whether alone or jointly with others, from the date of the Executive's initial employment by the Company and continuing until the end of the Consulting Period (or, if there is no Consulting Period, until the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company and the Affiliated Companies), relating or pertaining in any way to the Executive's employment with or the business of the Company or any Affiliated Company, shall be promptly disclosed in writing to the Chief Executive Officer and are hereby transferred to and shall redound to the benefit of the Company, and shall become and remain its sole and exclusive property. The Executive agrees to execute any assignments to the Company or its nominee, of the Executive's entire right, title and interest in and to any such discoveries and improvements and to execute any other instruments and documents requisite or desirable in applying for and obtaining patents or copyrights, at the expense of the Company, with respect thereto in the United States and in all foreign countries, that may be required by the Company.
 
The Executive further agrees, during and after the Employment Period, to cooperate to the extent and in the manner required by the Company, in the prosecution or defense of any patent or copyright claims or any litigation, or other proceeding involving any trade secrets, processes, discoveries or improvements covered by this Agreement, but all necessary expenses thereof shall be paid by the Company.
          (e) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purpose of the foregoing covenants, including without limitation the noncompetition covenant of Section 8(c), is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other Confidential Information of the Company; (ii) because of the nature of the business in which the Company and the Affiliated Companies are engaged and because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has access, it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Company and any Affiliated Company in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of this Section 8; and (iii) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Section 8 would be inadequate. The Executive therefore agrees and consents that if he commits any breach of a covenant under this Section 9 or threatens to commit any such breach, the Company shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage. With respect to any provision of this Section 9 finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, the Executive and the Company hereby agree that such court shall have jurisdiction to reform this Agreement or any provision hereof so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the parties agree to abide by such court's determination. If any of the covenants of this Section 9 are
 
determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such determination shall not be a bar to or in any way diminish the Company's right to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction.
     9. .
Successors
          (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
          (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
          (c) The Company will require any successor to CSX (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of CSX to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
     10. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Florida, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
 
          (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressees.
          (c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law.
          (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
 
          (e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Executive to terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement.
          (f) Except as expressly provided herein, the Executive and the Company acknowledge that this Agreement supersedes any other agreement between the Executive and the Company or any Affiliated Company, including the Executive's Special Employment Agreement with CSX Corporation dated October 2001 concerning the subject matter hereof, except as provided for herein. This Agreement shall have no effect on any agreements between the Executive and the Company or any of its affiliates not concerning the subject matter hereof.
          (g) This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and said counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to due authorization, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     THIS AMENDMENT No. 1 to that certain Employment Agreement dated as of the 15 day of March 2004, by and between CSX Corporation (the "Company") and Tony L. Ingram (the "Executive") is entered into this 13th day of December 2004.
th
     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
     1. Section 14 of the Employment Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety by the following:
          14. WAIVER AND RELEASE WITH RESPECT TO PRIOR AGREEMENTS. In exchange for the compensation and benefits promised herein, in the event of a Termination of Employment, pursuant to section 5, the Executive hereby waives and releases the Company and its affiliates from any and all claims he ever had or may have arising from or in connection with Sections 6(a), (b), and (c), of the letter agreement dated March 15, 2004, as the same may be amended to the date hereof ("Prior Agreement"), between the Company and the Executive and the Executive acknowledges that in the event of a Termination of Employment, pursuant to section 5, this Agreement supersedes and renders null and void in all respects Sections 6(a), (b), and (c) of the Prior Agreement. A copy of the Prior Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit "A".
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment No. 1 on the date first above written.
 
 
  Robert J. Haulter Senior Vice President  Human Resources
Mr. Tony L. Ingram Three Commericial Place Norfolk, VA 23510-9241
Dear Tony:
     To confirm our discussion, I am pleased to offer you the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of CSX Transportation, Inc. ("CSXT") reporting to Michael J. Ward. All of us involved in discussions with you believe you will be a valuable addition to the CSXT management team.
     The following is a summary of the principal elements of our offer to you:
     The sign-on bonus will be payable as soon as reasonably practicable after your Employment Date (defined as your first day of employment with CSXT). The Restricted Stock Grant will vest in four years: 5,000 shares each on the first, second and third anniversary dates of your Employment Date and 10,000 shares on the fourth anniversary Employment Date.
     Additional details are:
 
 
 
 
Tony, I am pleased to offer you this position and look forward to your affirmative response. Please call me with any issues or questions.


