FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20050407170901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
 
 
 
SECTION 1  REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
ITEM 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On April 4, 2005, the Board of Directors amended the CSX Corporation 2002 Corporate Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is a nonqualified deferred and equity based compensation plan maintained by the Company for the benefit of its active and retired directors. The Plan was amended to provide directors with access to the same investment benchmarks available under other compensation plans maintained by the Company for its executives and certain other employees. These benchmarks include various investment funds with different degrees of risk. Directors may reallocate permitted amounts among the various deemed benchmark alternatives. These deemed alternative investments are measuring tools used to determine the value of a director's account, and CSX is not required to invest any amounts as a result of these elections. Prior to a director's retirement from the Board of Directors, the amendment to the Plan is solely applicable to the elective deferral portion of a director's fees. Fifty percent of each director's annual retainer continues to be paid in CSX common stock.
     The Plan is an unfunded and unsecured liability of CSX, and benefits will be paid from CSX's general assets. A copy of the plan, as amended, is included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 7, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
          The purpose of this Plan is to permit members of the Board of Directors of CSX Corporation to elect deferred receipt of director's fees. This Plan is intended to constitute a deferred compensation plan for corporate director's fees. This Plan is not intended to replace or supercede any prior Director's deferral plans.
          The following words or terms used herein shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
          In any instance in which the male gender is used herein, it shall also include persons of the female gender in appropriate circumstances.
          A Member may elect to become a Participant for any Term by filing an initial Deferral Agreement or an Enrollment Form with the Secretary not later than (i) the Effective date or (ii) a date six months prior to the Annual Meeting for the Term for which Director's Fees are to be earned, whichever is later. Such Deferral Agreement shall be effective for purposes of deferring Director's Fees only as provided in Section 3. Such Enrollment Form shall be effective for purposes of transferring balances previously deferred under a prior Company deferral plan to the Participant's Accounts only as provided in Section 4. Following a Change of Control, all Deferral Elections are subject to the approval of the Benefits Trust Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the case of installments from a Stock Account, fractional share amounts shall be rounded up to the next highest whole share amount, except in the case of the final installment, in which case a cash payment will be made for any fractional shares.
          This Plan shall be unfunded and credits to the Accounts of each Participant shall not be set apart for him nor otherwise made available so that he may draw upon it at any time, except as provided in this Plan. Neither any Participant nor his Designated Beneficiary shall have any right, title, or interest in such credits or any claim against them. Payments may only be made at such times and in the manner expressly provided in this Plan. CSX's contractual obligation is to make the payments when due. No notes or security for the payment of any Participant's account shall be issued by CSX.
 
 
          No credits to the account of any Participant under this Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void. Nor shall any credit be subject to attachment or legal process for debts or other obligations. Nothing contained in this Plan shall give any Participant any interest, lien, or claim against any specific asset of CSX. No Participant or his Designated Beneficiary shall have any rights other than as a general creditor of CSX.
          In the event a Participant ceases to be a Member and becomes a proprietor, officer, partner, employee, director, or otherwise becomes affiliated with any business that is in competition with the Corporation, the entire balance credited to his account, including interest, or the value of the units in his Phantom Stock Account or Stock Account, if prior to a Change of Control, may, if directed by the Board in its sole discretion, be paid immediately to him in a lump sum. Following a Change of Control, such a decision by the Board is subject to the approval of the Benefits Trust Committee.
          Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, prior to a Change of Control, the Board may, in its sole discretion, direct payment in a lump sum, of any or all of the credit balance appearing at the time in the account of a Participant, and/or of the value of the units in his Phantom Stock Account or Stock Account. Following a Change of Control, such action by the Board is subject to the approval of the Benefits Trust Committee.
          Further, the obligations of CSX and the benefit due any Participant or Designated Beneficiary under the Plan shall be reduced by any amount received in regard thereto under the Trust or any similar trust or other vehicle.
          To the extent reflected by resolutions of the applicable boards of directors, obligations for benefits under this Plan shall be joint and several.
 
          Prior to a Change of Control, this Plan may be altered, amended, suspended, or terminated at any time by the Board, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, provided, however, that no alteration, amendment, suspension, or termination shall be made to this Plan which would result in the distribution of amounts credited to the accounts of all Participants in any manner other than is provided in this Plan without the consent of all Participants.


