FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20050727094115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
___Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
___Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
___Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
___Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4)
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the second quarter ended July 1, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, .
www.csx.com
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
Misty Skipper (904) 366-2949 David Baggs (904) 359-4812
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:
     , Fla., July 27, 2005  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported its financial results for the second quarter of 2005.
JACKSONVILLE
     "This was our sixth consecutive quarter of core earnings growth," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman, president and chief executive officer. "It was also the second consecutive quarter of record operating income in Surface Transportation, reflecting overall strength in our markets and an increased focus on productivity.
     "In the foreseeable future, we expect a continuation of favorable economic conditions, industry growth and a strong pricing environment. At the same time, CSX is taking the necessary steps to improve service for our customers and drive long-term growth for our shareholders."
     Surface Transportation revenue was $2.2 billion, increasing $169 million from the same quarter last year. This improvement was led by strength in the coal and merchandise markets, which produced 22 percent and 7 percent year-over-year revenue gains, respectively. Revenue also included $17 million from a rate case settlement.
     Surface Transportation operating income of $422 million compares to $280 million in the second quarter of 2004, a period that included a $15 million management restructuring charge. On a comparable basis, Surface Transportation operating income increased by $127 million, up 43 percent.
 
     Also in the quarter, CSX repurchased $1 billion of its debt, which strengthened the company's balance sheet, reduced its interest expense going forward, and improved its credit profile. This resulted in a $123 million after-tax expense, primarily reflecting the increase in current market value of the repurchased debt above the original issue value.
     The State of Ohio enacted legislation to repeal its Corporate Franchise Tax, which was based on federal taxable income. This resulted in an income tax benefit of $71 million in the quarter. In addition, other income was up $25 million versus the prior year due to higher real estate sales and interest income.
     CSX's detailed financial information is contained in its Quarterly Flash document, which will be posted on , and filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
www.csx.com
     CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the company and future opportunities at its previously announced Investors and Financial Analysts Conference at the New York Stock Exchange on August 11, 2005. For more information on this event, visit and click on "Investors".
www.csx.com.
     CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns companies providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services that are among the nation's leading transportation companies, connecting 70 river, ocean and lake ports, as well as more than 230 shortline railroads. Its principal operating company, CSX Transportation Inc., operates the largest railroad in the eastern United States with a 22,000-mile rail network linking commercial markets in 23 states, the District of Columbia, and two Canadian provinces. CSX Intermodal Inc. is a stand-alone integrated intermodal company serving customers with its own truck and terminal operations plus a dedicated domestic container fleet. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
     
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
     
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

 
CSX REPORTS STRONG SECOND QUARTER 2005 EARNINGS
     , Fla., July 27, 2005  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported its financial results for the second quarter of 2005.
JACKSONVILLE
           "This was our sixth consecutive quarter of core earnings growth," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman, president and chief executive officer. "It was also the second consecutive quarter of record operating income in Surface Transportation, reflecting overall strength in our markets and an increased focus on productivity.       "In the foreseeable future, we expect a continuation of favorable economic conditions, industry growth and a strong pricing environment. At the same time, CSX is taking the necessary steps to improve service for our customers and drive long-term growth for our shareholders."       Surface Transportation revenue was $2.2 billion, increasing $169 million from the same quarter last year. This improvement was led by strength in the coal and merchandise markets, which produced 22 percent and 7 percent year- over-year revenue gains, respectively. Revenue also included $17 million from a rate case settlement.       Surface Transportation operating income of $422 million compares to $280 million in the second quarter of 2004, a period that included a $15 million management restructuring charge. On a comparable basis, Surface Transportation operating income increased by $127 million, up 43 percent.       Also in the quarter, CSX repurchased $1 billion of its debt, which strengthened the company's balance sheet, reduced its interest expense going forward, and improved its credit profile. This resulted in a $123 million after-tax expense, primarily reflecting the increase in current market value of the repurchased debt above the original issue value.       The State of Ohio enacted legislation to repeal its Corporate Franchise Tax, which was based on federal taxable income. This resulted in an income tax benefit of $71 million in the quarter. In addition, other income was up $25 million versus the prior year due to higher real estate sales and interest income.       CSX's detailed financial information is contained in its Quarterly Flash document, which will be posted on , and filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.       CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the company and future opportunities at its previously announced Investors and Financial Analysts Conference at the New York Stock Exchange on August 11, 2005. For more information on this event, visit and click on "Investors".       CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns companies providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services that are among the nation's leading transportation
www.csx.com
www.csx.com.
companies, connecting 70 river, ocean and lake ports, as well as more than 230 shortline railroads. Its principal operating company, CSX Transportation Inc., operates the largest railroad in the eastern United States with a 22,000-mile rail network linking commercial markets in 23 states, the District of Columbia, and two Canadian provinces. CSX Intermodal Inc. is a stand-alone integrated intermodal company serving customers with its own truck and terminal operations plus a dedicated domestic container fleet. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
           
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
500 Water Street 15th Floor, C900 Jacksonville, FL 32202 http://www.csx.com
Contact:
Investor Relations    David Baggs    (904 359-4812
Media    Misty Skipper    (904) 366-2949
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2005 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 4.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in Millions)
 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Cash Flow Statements have been summarized for this presentation. All statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's Quarterly Report to be filed on Form 10-Q.
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (Unaudited) (a)
(Dollars in Millions)
Quarters Ended July 1, 2005, and June 25, 2004
Six Months Ended July 1, 2005, and June 25, 2004
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC AND REVENUE
Loads (Thousands); Revenue (Dollars in Millions)
NM  not meaningful
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
Second quarter 2005 results represent the 13 consecutive quarter of year-over-year merchandise revenue growth, as well as record revenue-per-car results. All markets experienced quarter-over-quarter revenue and revenue-per-car gains as a result of continued yield management and fuel surcharge. Efforts to increase price and fuel surcharge customer coverage continue across all lines of business. CSX experienced slight volume declines in five of seven markets. However emerging markets and food and consumer, both of which include new business opportunities, delivered quarter-over-quarter volume growth.
Merchandise
th
Volume was down 8% as vehicle production by traditional domestic manufacturers was unfavorable by 10% quarter over quarter. Overall, North American light vehicle production was unfavorable by 1% quarter over quarter. Field inventory levels were down 14 days quarter over quarter to 58 days, which remains at or slightly above target levels. Volume declines from GM permanently closing three plants served by CSX, were partially offset by rail shipments beginning at the CSX-served Montgomery, AL, Hyundai plant.
Automotive
Record revenue and revenue-per-car levels were achieved for the quarter. Strong demand continues across coal sub-markets, with a mild softening noted only in steel related traffic. Utility inventories remain below target levels intensifying the demand for coal shipments. The Company reached a settlement agreement in a rate case, that resulted in an additional $17 million of revenue in the second quarter of 2005.
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
Intermodal
 
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS, Continued
expenses increased $42 million in the second quarter of 2005 versus the prior year quarter. Higher incentive compensation costs are the primary driver of the higher expense as well as the effects of inflation.
Labor and Fringe
expenses increased $5 million quarter over quarter. The change is primarily due to inflation and increased legal fees which were mostly offset by a supplier cost reimbursement.
Materials, Supplies and Other
increased $46 million for the second quarter of 2005, which is mainly attributable to the Conrail spin-off transaction completed in the third quarter of 2004, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSX, as well as higher expenses resulting from an increase in the asset base.
Depreciation
increased $25 million for the quarter versus the prior year due to higher fuel prices, net of hedging benefits. Also, recoveries from last year associated with foreign line fuel billing settlements were not repeated. This was partially offset by lower volume and efficiency gains.
Fuel
decreased $7 million for the quarter primarily due to decreased overall volume.
Building and Equipment Rent
decreased $6 million primarily due to decreased Intermodal volume related to the Network Simplification Initiative, which reduced train starts beginning in the third quarter of 2004.
Inland Transportation
decreased $63 million for the quarter primarily due to the Conrail spin-off transaction completed in the third quarter of 2004. This transaction decreased rents paid to Conrail, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSX.
Conrail Rents, Fees and Services
of $15 million represents the 2004 charge for separation expenses related to the management restructuring announced in November 2003 at the Company's Surface Transportation units.
Restructuring Charge
 
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS
(a)
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
 
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) (Unaudited)
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENT  ESTIMATED


