FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20051026094129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, .
www.csx.com
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS
(c)     The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 26, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
     , Fla., October 26, 2005  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported third quarter net earnings of $164 million, or $.72 per share, a 31 percent increase in earnings per share from the same quarter in 2004. Also today, CSX announced a 30 percent increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.13 per common share. The dividend is payable December 15, 2005 to shareholders of record on November 25, 2005.
JACKSONVILLE
     "The strong third quarter results were particularly gratifying in light of the impact from Hurricane Katrina," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "The dividend increase reflects this team's confidence in its ability to deliver sustained value to shareholders."
     In the quarter, the company's core Surface Transportation businesses, which include rail and intermodal, achieved:
     CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the quarterly results at its third-quarter earnings conference call, beginning at 11 a.m. today. Those interested in participating in the meeting may do so by dialing (212) 271-4562 and asking for the CSX Earnings Call. In conjunction with the call, presentation materials and a live audio web cast will be available on CSX's web site at .
www.csx.com
     In addition, CSX's detailed financial information is contained in its Quarterly Flash document, which is posted on , and filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
www.csx.com
 
     CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns companies providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services that are among the nation's leading transportation companies, connecting 70 river, ocean and lake ports, as well as over 200 short line railroads. Its principal operating company, CSX Transportation Inc., operates the largest railroad in the eastern United States with a 22,000-mile rail network linking commercial markets in 23 states, the District of Columbia, and two Canadian provinces. CSX Intermodal Inc. is a stand-alone integrated intermodal company serving customers with its own truck and terminal operations plus a dedicated domestic container fleet. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
     
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
     
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

 
Exhibit 99.2
CSX REPORTS 31 PERCENT INCREASE IN EPS AND INCREASES DIVIDEND
Surface Transportation produces record third-quarter operating income
          JACKSONVILLE, Fla., October 26, 2005  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported third quarter net earnings of $164 million, or $.72 per share, a 31 percent increase in earnings per share from the same quarter in 2004. Also today, CSX announced a 30 percent increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.13 per common share. The dividend is payable December 15, 2005 to shareholders of record on November 25, 2005.
           "The strong third quarter results were particularly gratifying in light of the impact from Hurricane Katrina," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "The dividend increase reflects this team's confidence in its ability to deliver sustained value to shareholders."
          In the quarter, the company's core Surface Transportation businesses, which include rail and intermodal, achieved:
          CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the quarterly results at its third-quarter earnings conference call, beginning at 11 a.m. today. Those interested in participating in the meeting may do so by dialing (212) 271-4562 and asking for the CSX Earnings Call. In conjunction with the call, presentation materials and a live audio web cast will be available on CSX's web site at .
www.csx.com
          In addition, CSX's detailed financial information is contained in its Quarterly Flash document, which is posted on , and filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
www.csx.com
          CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., owns companies providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services that are among the nation's leading transportation companies, connecting 70 river, ocean and lake ports, as well as over 200 short line railroads. Its principal operating company, CSX Transportation Inc., operates the largest railroad in the eastern United States with a 22,000-mile rail network linking commercial markets in 23 states, the District of Columbia, and two Canadian provinces. CSX Intermodal Inc. is a stand-alone integrated intermodal company serving customers with its
own truck and terminal operations plus a dedicated domestic container fleet. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's website, .
www.csx.com
     
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
     
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
500 Water Street 15th Floor, C900 Jacksonville, FL 32202 http://www. csx.com
Contact:
Investor Relations   David Baggs   (904) 359-4812
Media
  Vance Meyer   (904) 359-3161
     
     
The accompanying unaudited financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2005 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in Millions)
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Dollars in Millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 4.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Cash Flow Statements have been summarized for this presentation. All statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's Quarterly Report to be filed on Form 10-Q.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (Unaudited) (a)
(Dollars in Millions) Quarters Ended September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005, and September 24, 2004
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC AND REVENUE
Volume (Thousands); Revenue (Dollars in Millions); Revenue Per Unit (Dollars)
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. NM  not meaningful
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS
The following discussion compares the 13-week quarters ended September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004.
Third quarter 2005 results represent the 14 consecutive quarter of revenue growth as well as record revenue-per-unit results. All markets experienced revenue and revenue-per-unit gains as a result of continued traffic re-pricing and the fuel surcharge program.
Rail Operating Revenue
th
Merchandise
North American light vehicle production was favorable by 1%, primarily driven by the success of the domestic manufacturer's employee discount pricing promotion. In addition, reduction in downtime at CSXT- served plants also contributed to an overall 2% increase in volumes.
Automotive
Revenue was up 17% and volume was up 4% on strong demand across coal markets. Utility inventories remain below target levels, continuing the high demand for coal shipments.
Coal, Coke and Iron Ore
Intermodal
 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION OPERATING RESULTS, Continued
The following discussion compares the 13-week quarters ended September 30, 2005 and September 24, 2004.
expenses increased $54 million. Higher incentive compensation costs are the primary driver of increased labor and fringe expenses as well as the effects of inflation.
Labor and Fringe
expenses increased $42 million, which is primarily attributable to inflation related expenses, higher reserve requirements for uncollectible accounts, property taxes, and deductibles for hurricane losses.
Materials, Supplies and Other
increased $34 million, which is mainly attributable to the Conrail spin-off transaction completed in the third quarter of 2004, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSXT, as well as higher expenses resulting from an increase in the asset base.
Depreciation
increased $26 million, due to higher fuel prices, net of hedging benefits, which was partially offset by lower volume and efficiency gains.
Fuel
decreased $14 million primarily due to a reduction in railcar and locomotive leases.
Building and Equipment Rent
decreased $17 million primarily due to decreases in Intermodal volume.
Inland Transportation
decreased $54 million due to the Conrail spin-off transaction completed in the third quarter of 2004. This transaction decreased rents paid to Conrail, as assets previously leased from Conrail are now owned directly by CSXT. During the third quarter Conrail received a tax benefit from the resolution of various federal income tax audit adjustments, which increases CSX's equity earnings and offsets Conrail Rents, Fees and Services.
Conrail Rents, Fees and Services
of $3 million represents the 2004 charge for separation expenses related to the management restructuring announced in November 2003 at the Company's Surface Transportation units.
Restructuring Charge
 
RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS
(a)
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION FUEL STATISTICS
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) (Unaudited)
EMPLOYEE COUNTS BY SEGMENT  ESTIMATED


