FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20060418170637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4)
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     CSX Corporation issued a press release and its quarterly Flash document on financial and operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, .
www.csx.com
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS
(c) The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
     99.1 Press Release as of April 18, 2006 from CSX Corporation
     99.2 Quarterly Flash Document
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 18, 2006

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     , Fla., April 18, 2006  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported first quarter 2006 net earnings of $245 million, or $1.06 per share, a 56 percent increase in earnings per share from continuing operations versus the same quarter last year. Earnings per share from last year's first quarter included a $1.88 per-share gain on the sale of the Company's discontinued operations.
Jacksonville
     First quarter 2006 earnings were driven by stronger Surface Transportation results, which include the Company's rail and intermodal businesses.
     
First Quarter Surface Transportation Highlights:
     "CSX continued to improve its underlying business performance in a strong demand environment," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "Most notably, our rail operations showed solid improvements in safety, service and efficiency as we continued to execute the ONE Plan with consistency."
     The Company also remained on schedule with capacity expansions, announced last August, to further enable service improvement and volume growth in attractive corridors of the Northeast and Southeast markets. Approximately one third of the projects are underway and will be completed this year, with the balance to be completed in 2007.
     "CSX employees continue to gain momentum in all of the critical areas of our strategy, from revenue improvement to operating discipline," said Ward. "We will see growth in volumes and profitability as the rail renaissance unfolds, service levels continue to improve and our capacity expansions come online."
     CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the quarterly results in the Company's earnings conference call, beginning at
 
8:30 a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow. Those interested in participating may dial 866-248-8494 and ask for the CSX earnings call. Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. A live webcast and presentation materials will also be available on the Company's website at in the Investors section. Due to a difference in the transmission times between phone and internet, participants are encouraged to view the presentation in one mode only.
www.csx.com
     In addition, detailed financial information is contained in the CSX Flash report, which is also posted on the website and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
     CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The Company's transportation network spans 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the Company's website, .
www.csx.com
     
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
     
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.2
April 18, 2006  CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today reported first quarter 2006 net earnings of $245 million, or $1.06 per share, a 56 percent increase in earnings per share from continuing operations versus the same quarter last year. Earnings per share from last year's first quarter included a $1.88 per-share gain on the sale of the Company's discontinued operations.
Jacksonville, Fla.,
First quarter 2006 earnings were driven by stronger Surface Transportation results, which include the Company's rail and intermodal businesses.
     
First Quarter Surface Transportation Highlights:
"CSX continued to improve its underlying business performance in a strong demand environment," said Michael J. Ward, CSX Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "Most notably, our rail operations showed solid improvements in safety, service and efficiency as we continued to execute the ONE Plan with consistency."
The Company also remained on schedule with capacity expansions, announced last August, to further enable service improvement and volume growth in attractive corridors of the Northeast and Southeast markets. Approximately one third of the projects are underway and will be completed this year, with the balance to be completed in 2007.
"CSX employees continue to gain momentum in all of the critical areas of our strategy, from revenue improvement to operating discipline," said Ward. "We will see growth in volumes and profitability as the rail renaissance unfolds, service levels continue to improve and our capacity expansions come online."
CSX executives will provide additional perspective on the quarterly results in the Company's earnings conference call, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow. Those interested in participating may dial 866-248-8494 and ask for the CSX earnings call. Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. A live webcast and presentation materials will also be available on the Company's website at in the Investors section. Due to a difference in the transmission times between phone and internet, participants are encouraged to view the presentation in one mode only.
www.csx.com
 
In addition, detailed financial information is contained in the CSX Flash report, which is also posted on the website and furnished on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The Company's transportation network spans 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the Company's website, .
www.csx.com
This press release and other statements by the Company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the Company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the Company. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the Company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the Company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
 
 
Surface Transportation expenses increased $87 million from last year's first quarter. Significant variances are described below.
expenses increased due to higher staffing levels as well as the impact of increased inflation. Other labor and fringe expense increases were more than offset by improved productivity in train operations, as overtime and other crew expenses were reduced with the improved operational fluidity.
Labor and Fringe
expenses decreased overall primarily from Intermodal costs in last year's first quarter that were not repeated this quarter related to sales tax and other items. Rail expenses were flat as material and other inflation was largely offset by productivity gains (for instance, as railroad measurements improve locomotives from other railroads are used less and therefore drive down expense).
Materials, Supplies and Other
is higher due to an increase in the asset base.
Depreciation
increased due to higher fuel prices and less fuel hedge benefit versus the first quarter of last year.
Fuel
decreased due to a reduction in railcar lease expense. This was a direct result of the improvement in operational fluidity, which drove improvements in shipment cycle-time and reduced the number of cars-on-line.
Building and Equipment Rent
increased primarily due to net gains from equipment sales of the former container shipping business. Also included are gain amortization on the CSX Lines conveyance, net sub-lease income from assets formerly included in the marine services segment, and other items.
Other Operating Income
 
Surface Transportation revenue for the first quarter 2006 results represents the 16 consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth. The strong pricing environment continues as all major markets experienced revenue gains.
th
 Volume largely returned to pre-hurricane levels but was still below the prior year comparable quarter as high raw material costs continue to be a concern for domestic producers.  Strong demand for aggregate products, such as rock, salt, and sand, and movement of municipal waste propelled volume increases partially offset by lower volumes in cement due to production interruptions.  Volume declined due to weakness in the printing market as well as production downtimes at several brown paper mills. Substitution effects from newsprint to electronic media continues to reduce the demand for paper. These declines were partially offset by strength in the lumber market as warm weather helped increase housing starts despite recent signs of slowing housing activities.  Both volumes and revenues improved due to increased movements of soybeans. In addition, volume of ethanol moving into the Northeast increased as there was higher demand for this fuel additive.  Domestic demand continued to drive strong steel production throughout the quarter. Slight volume gains, strong pricing actions, and fuel surcharge coverage increases delivered 19% revenue growth.  Short-haul, lower revenue per car, phosphate volume decreased significantly due to temporary plant shutdowns resulting from lower international demand. The loss of this short-haul traffic, and an increase in longer haul domestic phosphate volume, combined for a favorable impact on revenue per unit and flat overall revenue.  Volume in this segment (which includes the transportation of refrigerated products, canned goods, building products and transportation equipment) increased due to strong growth of shipments of canned goods, rice, beans, beer and wine and strength in deliveries of newly finished customer freight cars.
Merchandise 
Chemicals
Emerging Markets
Forest Products
Agricultural Products
Metals
Phosphate and Fertilizer
Food and Consumer
Revenue and volume were up on strong demand across all markets, except for the export market. Electricity generation was down 1% in CSXT-served markets due to warmer weather conditions, however, volume increased as utilities continue to rebuild inventories.
Coal 
Market share continues to shift from the Big 3 to the new domestic manufacturers (foreign brands produced domestically). Automotive revenue per unit increased due to price escalation and fuel surcharge.
Automotive 
North American light vehicle production was favorable.
 Although volume improved with several international customers, overall volume decreased predominantly due to the merger of two key accounts and continued yield management initiatives. Continued strength in pricing is partially offsetting the loss of higher revenue per unit traffic in long-haul markets.
Intermodal 
International
 Volume was up due to strength in the truckload market offsetting some known reductions in the parcel segment. The strong pricing environment continues, resulting in increased revenue per unit of 6%.
Domestic
 
(a) Beginning October 2005, the American Association of Railroads adopted a new dwell calculation in an effort to standardize reporting across U.S. railroads. Beginning in the second quarter of 2006 and forward, CSX will adopt this new method. If CSX had used this new method in the first quarter of 2006, average system dwell time would have been 26.1 hours for that period versus 26.6 hours as shown above.
 


