FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20060921193440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS
On September 15, 2006, CSX Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC, on behalf of the Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters") for the public offering of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.000% Notes due 2036 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of August 1, 1990, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, as supplemented and amended, and an Action of Authorized Pricing Officers dated September 15, 2006. The Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), by a Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-132051) which became effective February 27, 2006. On September 18, 2006, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Act, its Prospectus, dated February 27, 2006, and Prospectus Supplement, dated September 15, 2006, pertaining to the offering and sale of the Notes.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
The following exhibits are filed as a part of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
1. Pursuant to (i) Section 301 of the Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1990, between CSX Corporation (the "Corporation") and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as heretofore supplemented and amended (the "Indenture"), and (ii) resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting duly called and held on December 8, 2004, the undersigned officers hereby establish a series (as that term is used in Section 301 of the Indenture) of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, which series of Securities shall have the terms set forth in the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement attached as (collectively, the "Prospectus") and such other or different terms as may be set forth herein. The title of the Securities shall be the 6.000% Notes due 2036 (the "Notes"), and the Notes will be issued in fully registered form only, in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Terms used herein and not defined shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture or the Prospectus.
Exhibit A
2. The form and terms of the Notes substantially in the form of attached hereto are hereby approved under the Indenture; and the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Corporate Secretary, any Assistant Corporate Secretary or the Controller of the Corporation are, and each of them with full power to act without the others hereby is, authorized, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to execute, manually or by facsimile signature, and in the manner provided in the Indenture, the Notes (and, in addition, to replace lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed Notes, all as provided in the Indenture) substantially in the form approved hereby, in both temporary and definitive form, with such changes, modifications and insertions therein as the officer executing the Notes shall determine, such determination to be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by such officer, all in the manner and form required in, or contemplated by, the Indenture.
Exhibit B
3. The signatures of the officers of the Corporation so authorized to execute the Notes may, but need not be, the facsimile signatures of the current or any future such authorized officers imprinted or otherwise reproduced thereon, the Corporation for such purpose hereby adopting such facsimile signatures as binding upon it, notwithstanding that at the time any Notes shall be authenticated and delivered or disposed of any officer so signing shall have ceased to be such authorized officer.
4. The form, terms and provisions of the Indenture are hereby ratified and approved.
5. The form, terms and provisions of the Underwriting Agreement, dated September 15, 2006 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between the Corporation and the Underwriters named on Schedule II thereto, providing for the issuance and sale of the
Notes are hereby approved; and the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel, the Corporate Secretary, any Assistant Corporate Secretary or the Assistant Vice President, Treasury and Investor Relations of the Corporation (each an "Authorized Officer" and collectively, the "Authorized Officers") are, and each of them with full power to act without the others hereby is, authorized and directed to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, the Underwriting Agreement with such changes therein as the officer of the Corporation executing the Underwriting Agreement shall approve, the execution thereof by such officer to be conclusive evidence of such approval.
6. The form and terms of the Prospectus are hereby approved.
7. The Authorized Officers are, and each of them with full power to act without the others hereby is, authorized and empowered to take all actions, and to execute and deliver any and all documents, in the name and on behalf of this Corporation as such officer or officers shall deem necessary or appropriate to effect or otherwise carry out the foregoing.
8. Any and all actions heretofore or hereafter taken by any officer or officers of the Corporation within the terms of the foregoing, including without limitation, the filing of a registration statement and amendments, supplements and addenda thereto with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the Notes and other securities which may be issued pursuant to the Indenture, are hereby ratified and confirmed as the act of the Corporation.
9. The Notes may be authenticated by the Trustee and issued in accordance with the Indenture.
Dated as of the date first set forth above.
 

Exhibit 4.2
UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE.
 
This security (the "Security") is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of CSX Corporation, a Virginia corporation (hereinafter called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, unlimited as to aggregate principal amount, dated as of August 1, 1990 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture (as hereinafter defined)), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 15, 1991, a Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 6, 1997, a Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 22, 1998, a Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 30, 2001, a Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 27, 2003, and a Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 23, 2004, to which indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto (the indenture, as supplemented being herein called the "Indenture") reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, which series has been issued in an initial aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000 (FOUR HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS). All Securities of this series need not be issued at the same time and such series may be reopened at any time, without the consent of any Holder, for issuances of additional Securities of this series. Any such additional Securities of this series will have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as those initially issued. Further Securities of this series may also be authenticated and delivered as provided by Sections 304, 305, 306 or 906 of the Indenture. This
Security represents an aggregate initial principal amount of $400,000,000 (FOUR HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS) (as adjusted from time to time in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof and as set forth on Exhibit A hereto, the "Principal Amount") of the Securities of such series, with the Interest Payment Dates, date of original issuance, and date of Maturity specified herein and bearing interest on said Principal Amount at the interest rate specified herein.
The Company, for value received, hereby promises to pay CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $400,000,000 (FOUR HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS) on October 1, 2036 and to pay interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) thereon from September 20, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, or, if the date of this Security is an Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, then from the date hereof, semiannually in arrears on October 1 and April 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2007, and at Maturity at the rate of 6.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and premium, if any, and (to the extent lawful) interest on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by the Security. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the September 15 or March 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date to be fixed by the Trustee for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Securities of this series may be listed or quoted, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange or system, all as more fully provided in such Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, interest payable on this Security at Maturity will be payable to the person to whom principal is payable.
This Security is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for definitive Registered Securities of this series only as provided in this paragraph. If (x) the Depository with respect to the Securities of this series (the "Depository") notifies the Company that it is unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as Depository for this Security or if at any time the Depository ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor Depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Registered Securities and executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order providing that this Security shall be so exchangeable or (z) there shall have happened and be continuing an Event of Default or any event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of the series of which this Security is a part, this Security or any portion hereof shall, in the case of clause (x) above, be exchanged for definitive
 
Registered Securities of this series, and in the case of clauses (y) and (z) above, be exchangeable for definitive Registered Securities of this series, provided that the definitive Security so issued in exchange for this Security shall be in authorized denominations and be of like tenor and of an equal aggregate principal amount as the portion of the Security to be exchanged, and provided further that, in the case of clauses (y) and (z) above, definitive Registered Securities of this series will be issued in exchange for this Security, or any portion hereof, only if such definitive Registered Securities were requested by written notice to the Security Registrar by or on behalf of a Person who is a beneficial owner of an interest herein given through the Holder hereof. Any definitive Registered Security of this series issued in exchange for this Security, or any portion hereof, shall be registered in the name or names of such Person or Persons as the Holder hereof shall instruct the Security Registrar. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
Any exchange of this Security or portion hereof for one or more definitive Registered Securities of this series will be made at the New York office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for that purpose. Upon exchange of any portion of this Security for one or more definitive Registered Securities of this series, the Trustee shall endorse Exhibit A of this Security to reflect the reduction of its Principal Amount by an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the definitive Registered Securities of this series so issued in exchange, whereupon the Principal Amount hereof shall be reduced for all purposes by the amount so exchanged and noted. Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Indenture, until exchanged in full for one or more definitive Registered Securities of this series, this Security shall in all respects be subject to and entitled to the same benefits and conditions under the Indenture as a duly authenticated and delivered definitive Registered Security of this series.
The principal and any interest in respect of any portion of this Security payable in respect of an Interest Payment Date or at the Stated Maturity thereof, in each case occurring prior to the exchange of such portion for a definitive Registered Security or Securities of this series, will be paid, as provided herein, to the Holder hereof which will undertake in such circumstances to credit any such principal and interest received by it in respect of this Security to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such interests on such Interest Payment Date or at Stated Maturity. If a definitive Registered Security or Registered Securities of this series are issued in exchange for any portion of this Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, then interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Holder hereof, and the Holder hereof will undertake in such circumstances to credit such interest to the account or accounts of the Persons who were the beneficial owners of such portion of this Security on such Regular Record Date or Special Record Date, as the case may be.
 
Payment of the principal of and any such interest on this Security will be made at the offices of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Paying Agent, in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated by it for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts by check mailed to the registered Holders thereof; , , that at the option of the Holder, payment of interest may be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account of the Person entitled hereto as such account shall be provided to the Security Registrar and shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
The Securities shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Company's option at any time. The Redemption Price for the Securities to be redeemed shall equal the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the Redemption Date:
 
 
The Redemption Price shall be calculated by the Independent Investment Banker assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date:
 
 
 
The Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date. The Company shall notify the Trustee, in an Officers' Certificate, of the Redemption Price no later than the second Business Day preceding the Redemption Date. The Officers' Certificate shall set forth the Redemption Price both as an aggregate amount for all the Securities to be redeemed and as an amount per $1,000.00 in principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, subject to a minimum $2,000.00 denomination as set forth below.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means UBS Securities LLC and its successors, or if that firm is unwilling or unable to serve in that capacity, an independent investment and banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means:
 
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third business day preceding such Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption shall be given as provided in Section 1104 of the Indenture; provided, that such notice shall not be required to include the Redemption Price but shall instead include the manner of calculation of the Redemption Price. If the Company elects to partially redeem the Securities, the Trustee will select in a fair and appropriate manner the Securities to be redeemed.
 
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series (including this Security and the interests represented hereby) may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and any interest on the Securities of this series (including this Security and the interests represented hereby) shall terminate.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions shall apply to this Security.
The provisions of Article Fourteen of the Indenture apply to Securities of this series.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and the Persons who are beneficial owners of interests represented hereby, and of any Security issued in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein and herein set forth, the transfer of Registered Securities of the series of which this Security is a part may be registered on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of such Securities for registration of transfer at the office of the Security Registrar, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or two more new Securities of this Series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange of Securities as provided above, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Securities of this series of which this Security is a part are issuable only in registered form without coupons, in denominations of $2,000.00 and integral multiples of $1,000.00. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
The Securities of this series shall be dated the date of their authentication.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
Attest:
 
This is one of the Securities of a series issued under the Indenture described herein.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
Insert Taxpayer Identification No.
 
Please print or typewrite name and address including zip code of assignee
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing
attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Security Registrar with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                                                 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 

Exhibit 5.1
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
September 20, 2006
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for CSX Corporation, a Virginia corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the purchase by the several Underwriters (the "Underwriters") listed in Schedule II to the Underwriting Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC, as Representatives of the Underwriters, from the Company of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.000% Senior Notes due 2036 (the "Notes") to be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of August 1, 1990, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 15, 1991, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 6, 1997, the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 22, 1998, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 30, 2001, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 27, 2003, and the Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 23, 2004.
In that connection, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records and other instruments as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion, including: (a) the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended; (b) the By-laws of the Company; (c) resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on December 8, 2004, and the Action of Authorized Pricing Officers of the Company dated as of September 15, 2006; (d) the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (Registration No. 333-132051) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission") on February 27, 2006 (the "Registration Statement"), for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") of $1,300,000,000 aggregate amount of various securities of the Company, to be issued from time to time by the Company; (e) the related Base Prospectus dated February 27, 2006 (together with the documents incorporated therein by reference, the "Base Prospectus"); (f) the Preliminary Prospectus dated September 15, 2006, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act (the "Preliminary Prospectus"); (g) the Final Prospectus dated September 15, 2006, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act (together with the Base Prospectus, the "Prospectus"); (h) the documents and other information described in Annex A to this letter (together, the "Disclosure Package"), including the Term Sheet, dated September 15, 2006, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Act (the "Term Sheet"); (i) the Underwriting Agreement; and (j) the form of the Note. We have relied, with respect to certain factual matters, on the representations and warranties of the Company and the Underwriters contained in the Underwriting Agreement, and have assumed compliance by each such party with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement. In particular, but without limitation, we have relied upon the Company's representation that it has not been notified pursuant to Rule 401(g) of the Securities Act of any objection by the Commission to the use of the form on which the Registration Statement was filed.
Our identification of information as part of the Disclosure Package has been at your request and with your approval. Such identification is for the limited purpose of making the statements set forth in this opinion regarding the Disclosure Package and is not the expression of a view by us as to whether any such information has been or should have been conveyed to investors generally or to any particular investors at any particular time or in any particular manner.
Based on the foregoing and subject to the qualifications set forth herein, we are of opinion as follows:
1. Assuming that the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and, assuming that the Notes have been duly authorized, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Final Prospectus and will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
 
moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
2. The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
3. The Registration Statement initially became effective under the Securities Act on February 27, 2006; the Preliminary Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3), the Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5), and the Term Sheet was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433. Thereupon, assuming prior payment by the Company of the pay-as-you-go registration fee for the offering of Notes, upon the filing of the Prospectus with the Commission, the offering of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus became registered under the Securities Act; to our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Securities Act.
4. The Company is not an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
5. The statements made in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus under the captions "Description of Debt Securities" and "Description of Notes," insofar as they purport to constitute summaries of the terms of the Notes and the Indenture, and under the caption "Certain Tax Considerations," insofar as they purport to describe the material tax consequences of an investment in Notes, fairly summarize the matters therein described.
We express no opinion with respect to compliance with, or the application or effect of, Federal or state securities laws except to the extent set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4.
We express no opinion with respect to compliance with, or the application or effect of, any laws or regulations relating to the ownership or operation of a railroad to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject or the necessity of any authorization, approval or action by, or any notice to, consent of, order of, or filing with, any governmental authority, pursuant to any such laws or regulations.
We are admitted to practice in the State of New York, and we express no opinion as to matters governed by any laws other than the laws of the State of New York and the Federal laws of the United States of America. In particular, we do not purport to pass on any matter governed by the laws of Virginia.
In rendering this opinion, we have assumed, without independent investigation, the correctness of, and take no responsibility for, the opinion dated September 20, 2006, of CSX Corporation, a copy of which has been delivered to you pursuant to paragraph 21 of Section 5 of the Underwriting Agreement, as to all matters of law covered therein relating to the laws of Virginia.
 
We are furnishing this opinion to you, as Representatives, solely for your benefit and the benefit of the several Underwriters. This opinion may not be relied upon by any other person (including by any person that acquires the Notes from the several Underwriters or for any other purpose). It may not be used, circulated, quoted or otherwise referred to for any other purpose.
 
The several Underwriters listed in Schedule II to the
Underwriting Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006,
among CSX Corporation and Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC, as
representatives of the several Underwriters
In care of
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Eleven Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10010-3629
UBS Securities LLC
677 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
 
Base Prospectus, dated February 27, 2006.
Preliminary Prospectus, filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3), dated September 15, 2006.
Term Sheet, filed pursuant to Rule 433 of the Securities Act, dated September 15, 2006.

Exhibit 12.1
 
(1) A pretax gain of $126 million recognized for insurance recoveries from claims related to Hurricane Katrina for the six months ended June 30, 2006. Removing the effect of this gain would reduce the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from 5.2x to 4.7x for the six months ended June 30, 2006.
(2) A pretax charge of $192 million recognized to repurchase $1.0 billion of outstanding debt and a favorable change in estimate of unasserted liability exposure for asbestos and other claims of $38 million pretax for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005. Adjusting for the effect of these items would increase the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from 3.0x to 3.4x for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005.
(3) A pretax charge of $71 million recognized for separation expenses related to the management restructuring at Surface Transportation during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. Removing the effect of this charge would increase the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from 2.0x to 2.2x for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.
(4) The fiscal year ended December 26, 2003 included the following:
(A) a pretax charge of $232 million recognized in conjunction with the change in estimate of casualty reserves to include an estimate of incurred but not reported claims for asbestos and other occupational injuries to be received over the next seven years;
(B) a pretax charge of $108 million recognized to account for CSX's entrance into two settlement agreements with A.P. Moller-Maersk that resolved all material disputes pending between the companies arising out of the 1999 sale of the international container-shipping assets; and
(C) the net pretax restructuring charge of $22 million recognized as the initial charge for separation expenses related to the management restructuring announced in 2003 and revised estimates for railroad retirement taxes and other benefits that will be paid to individuals under the 1991 and 1992 separation plans.
Removing the effect of these charges would increase the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from 1.3x to 2.1x for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2003.
(5) A pretax charge of $60 million recognized to account for the settlement of the 1987 New Orleans tank car fire litigation for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2001. Removing the effect of this charge would increase the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from 1.6x to 1.7x for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2001.


