FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20070417163621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 17, 2007, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report (Flash) document on financial and operating results for the first quarter ended March 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the Flash document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website, .*
www.csx.com
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01. EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 17, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
:
Contacts
David Baggs, Investor Relations,
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate
Communications,
904-359-1708
Surface Transportation Highlights:
 
 
 
(April 17, 2007)  CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today reported first quarter 2007 earnings of $240 million, or 52 cents per share, including insurance recoveries of $18 million, or 2 cents per share. Last year the company reported first quarter earnings of $245 million, or 53 cents per share. (See table below for reconciliation of quarter items to reported numbers.)
Jacksonville, Florida
"We are pleased that our Surface Transportation businesses continued to show very strong earning power in the face of modest economic headwinds," said Michael Ward, chairman, president and CEO of CSX Corporation. "We posted our 20
th
consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and sustained excellent levels of customer service."
First quarter revenues were a quarterly record $2.4 billion, a 4 percent increase over the first quarter of 2006. The increase was driven by continued strong pricing, which also drove revenue-per-unit gains of 8 percent. Overall volumes were down by 4 percent compared to the first quarter of 2006, reflecting continued softness in the construction and automotive sectors.
CSX Surface Transportation businesses recorded first quarter operating income of $487 million. Excluding insurance recoveries, comparable operating income was $469 million, or 4 percent less than the first quarter of 2006. CSX's 2007 first quarter earnings were achieved despite a $28 million expense related to a serious derailment and without the $35 million fuel hedge that benefited the first quarter of 2006.
"Given the positive outlook for rail transportation and our momentum in executing our strategy, we expect strong financial results for the rest of the year and over the long-term," said Ward.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Flash report available on the company's Web site at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
www.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Apr. 18, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.
A webcast of the live conference call will be available at in the Investors section. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be available. In addition, the replay will be available for download to a portable audio player or computer as an MP3 - or podcast - - file. Both the replay and MP3 file can be found at in the Investors section and will be archived on the site for at least 30 days following the call for those unable to listen in real time.
www.csx.com
www.csx.com
CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the company's business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the Securities and Exchange Commission may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results.
In press releases and presentation slides for stock analysts, CSX has provided Surface Transportation operating income and earnings per share adjusted for certain items, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The company's management evaluates its business and makes certain operating decisions (e.g., budgeting, forecasting, employee compensation, asset management and resource allocation) using these adjusted numbers.
Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business operations as well as provides comparable historical information. Lastly, earnings forecasts prepared by stock analysts and other third parties generally exclude the effects of items that are difficult to predict or measure in advance and are not directly related to CSX's ongoing operations. A reconciliation between GAAP and the non-GAAP measure is provided above. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
Forward-looking statements
This press release and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at and the company's website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

Exhibit 99.2
Surface Transportation Highlights:
 
 
 
- CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today reported first quarter 2007 earnings of $240 million, or 52 cents per share, including insurance recoveries of $18 million, or 2 cents per share. Last year the company reported first quarter earnings of $245 million, or 53 cents per share. (See table below for reconciliation of quarter items to reported numbers.)
Jacksonville, Florida (April 17, 2007)
"We are pleased that our Surface Transportation businesses continued to show very strong earning power in the face of modest economic headwinds," said Michael Ward, chairman, president and CEO of CSX Corporation. "We posted our 20th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and sustained excellent levels of customer service."
First quarter revenues were a quarterly record $2.4 billion, a 4 percent increase over the first quarter of 2006. The increase was driven by continued strong pricing, which also drove revenue-per-unit gains of 8 percent. Overall volumes were down by 4 percent compared to the first quarter of 2006, reflecting continued softness in the construction and automotive sectors.
CSX Surface Transportation businesses recorded first quarter operating income of $487 million. Excluding insurance recoveries, comparable operating income was $469 million, or 4 percent less than the first quarter of 2006. CSX's 2007 first quarter earnings were achieved despite a $28 million expense related to a serious derailment and without the $35 million fuel hedge that benefited the first quarter of 2006.
"Given the positive outlook for rail transportation and our momentum in executing our strategy, we expect strong financial results for the rest of the year and over the long term," said Ward.
 
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Earnings Report available on the company's Web site at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
www.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Apr. 18, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.
A webcast of the live conference call will be available at in the Investors section. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be available. In addition, the replay will be available for download to a portable audio player or computer as an MP3 - or podcast - file. Both the replay and MP3 file can be found at in the Investors section and will be archived on the site for at least 30 days following the call for those unable to listen in real time.
www.csx.com
www.csx.com
CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the company's business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the Securities and Exchange Commission may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results.
In press releases and presentation slides for stock analysts, CSX has provided Surface Transportation operating income and earnings per share adjusted for certain items, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The company's management evaluates its business and makes certain operating decisions (e.g., budgeting, forecasting, employee compensation, asset management and resource allocation) using these adjusted numbers.
Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business operations as well as provides comparable historical information. Lastly, earnings forecasts prepared by stock analysts and other third parties generally exclude the effects of items that are difficult to predict or measure in advance and are not directly related to CSX's ongoing operations. A reconciliation between GAAP and the non-GAAP measure is provided above. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
 
Forward-looking statements
This press release and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
and the company's website at
www.csx.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2007 Surface Transportation revenue of $2.4 billion represents the 20th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue gains. A favorable pricing environment was the primary driver of revenue gains offsetting volume weakness related to lower housing construction and lower domestic automobile production.
Merchandise
 A favorable pricing environment continued to be the primary driver of revenue gains. Plastic volumes were soft as the industry recovered from excess inventory levels. Shipments of chemicals used for paper production also declined due to continued softness in the paper market.
Chemicals
 Revenue per unit improved due to yield improvements. Declines in residential construction resulted in fewer shipments of aggregates, which include rock and minerals.
Emerging Markets
 Forest products shipments, especially lumber, continued to be challenged by a weak residential construction market which resulted in lower volume. Continued emphasis on more profitable shipments favorably impacted revenue-per-unit growth.
Forest Products
 Revenue-per-unit growth remained strong due to favorable pricing and increased fuel surcharge coverage. Rapid growth in the northeast ethanol market helped volume; however, this was partially offset by lower grain shipments.
Agricultural Products
 Revenue increased on slightly unfavorable volumes due to continued emphasis on improving yields and growth in higher revenue per unit export shipments. Towards the end of the quarter, volumes strengthened due to reductions in steel inventories.
Metals
 Volume was up due to increased shipments of fertilizers to farmers partially in response to higher demand for corn from ethanol producers. Revenue-per-unit growth was attributable to these longer-haul shipments of fertilizer and potash.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Emphasis on price and yield management resulted in strong revenue-per-unit growth. A weak residential construction market drove volume declines in building products and roofing granules, which are used to make shingles.
Food and Consumer
Coal
Revenue and revenue per unit increased due to a continued favorable pricing environment and strong demand for export coal. However, these volume increases were more than offset by lower shipments to electric utilities due to coal inventories being at target levels.
Automotive
Declines in volume were driven by decreases in automobile production mainly due to lower demand for truck and sport utility vehicles. Revenue per unit increased due to continued pricing efforts.
Other Rail Revenue
The primary driver of this change was the increase in business generated by the Company's short line railroads.
Intermodal
 Despite a reduction in higher revenue-per-unit traffic from long-haul markets, revenue per unit increased due to continued strength in pricing. Volumes were lower primarily due to a temporal slowdown in international freight shipments.
International
 Volumes increased slightly due to a new shorter-haul train service. The unfavorable mix impact on revenue per unit from this new traffic more than offset pricing gains in the remaining domestic business.
Domestic
 The primary driver of this revenue decrease was the termination of two agreements relating to the storage of containers and other ancillary services.
Other
 
Surface Transportation expenses increased $91 million from last year's first quarter. Significant variances are described below.
expenses increased $14 million primarily due to wage and benefit inflation, partially offset by productivity gains from improved operations and lower volume, which resulted in a reduction of crew expenses.
Labor and Fringe
expenses increased $81 million, primarily due to an increase in train accident related expenses. Additionally, current year inflation on material and rising insurance cost were higher than a year ago. Also contributing to the increase were various other items.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $6 million primarily due to a reduction in hedge benefit resulting from the expiration of the fuel hedge program, mostly offset by lower volume and price.
Fuel
expense increased $10 million due to a larger asset base related to higher capital spending.
Depreciation
of $18 million represented insurance recoveries related to property damage and lost profits.
Gain on Insurance Recoveries
decreased by $8 million primarily due to net gains from equipment sales of the former container shipping business during last year's first quarter.
Other Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


