FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20080509170056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e) On May 6, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of CSX Corporation (CSX) approved and adopted the CSX 2008-2010 Long Term Incentive Plan (the Plan).
 
The Plan, which was adopted under the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan (COIP), establishes certain performance goals and award opportunities for eligible CSX employees. The Plan seeks to motivate and reward certain CSX employees, in a manner aligned with shareholder value creation, through the issuance of Performance Grants pursuant to which payouts are made based on CSXs attainment of preestablished Operating Ratio targets for fiscal year 2010.  The targets require significant Operating Ratio improvement over the most recently completed fiscal year. CSXs Operating Ratio is defined as consolidated operating expenses divided by operating revenue and is calculated excluding non-recurring items. The Operating Ratio targets that determine payouts may also vary based on the average cost of oil. Payouts under the Plan will be in the form of CSX common stock and will be made, if at all, in early 2011.
 
Payouts under the Plan for certain executive officers are subject to discretionary downward adjustment by up to 30% based upon accomplishment of certain company initiatives.
 
The Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


