FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20080729144529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors; Election of Directors
 
On July 23 and 24, 2008, Dr. Elizabeth E. Bailey, Mr. Robert D. Kunisch and Mr. Southwood J. Morcott tendered their resignations as directors of CSX Corporation, effective in each case at such time as Mr. Alexandre Behring, Mr. Gilbert H. Lamphere and Mr. John D. McPherson, respectively, consent to be elected to the board of directors by the board. On July 24, 2008, the board of directors elected Messrs. Behring, Lamphere and McPherson to the board of directors, effective in each case conditionally upon their consent to so serve as required under Section 13.1-675E of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, for a term expiring upon the effectiveness of the election of directors by shareholders at the CSX Corporation 2008 annual meeting of shareholders.
On July 25, 2008, Mr. McPherson consented to be elected to the board of directors, rendering Mr. McPhersons election and Mr. Morcotts resignation effective. On July 28, 2008, Messrs. Behring and Lamphere consented to be elected to the board of directors, rendering Mr. Behrings and Mr. Lampheres respective elections and Dr. Baileys and Mr. Kunischs respective resignations effective.  Messrs. Behring's and Lamphere's consents were without prejudice to their rights, and the rights of the other TCI/3G nominees, to be seated as board members as and when duly elected and with a full reservation of all other rights.
The committees of the board of directors on which Messrs. McPherson, Behring and Lamphere will serve have not been determined as of the date of this filing.
 
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: 
July 29
, 200
8

Exhibit 99.1
 
Dr. Elizabeth E. Bailey
253 Mountwell Avenue Haddonfield, NJ  08033
 
Board of Directors
CSX Corporation
500 Water Street
Jacksonville, Florida 32202
I hereby tender my resignation as a director of CSX Corporation (the Company) effective at such time as Alexandre Behring advises either Michael Ward or Ned Kelly that, as required by Section 13.1-675E of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, he consents to be elected to the board of directors of the Company the board of directors elects.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Board of Directors
CSX Corporation
500 Water Street
Jacksonville, Florida 32202
I hereby tender my resignation as a director of CSX Corporation (the Company) effective at such time as Gilbert H. Lamphere advises either Michael Ward or Ned Kelly that, as required by Section 13.1-675E of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, he consents to be elected to the board of directors of the Company by the board of directors.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Mr. Southwood J. Morcott
30 Brams Point Road Hilton Head Island, SC  29926-2048
 
Board of Directors
CSX Corporation
500 Water Street
Jacksonville, Florida 32202
 
I hereby tender my resignation as a director of CSX Corporation (the Company) effective at such time as John D. McPherson advises either Michael Ward or Ned Kelly that, as required by Section 13.1-675E of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, he consents to be elected to the board of directors of the Company by the board of directors.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced that its Board of Directors has invited John D. McPherson and TCI Group nominees Gilbert H. Lamphere and Alexandre Behring to join the Board immediately. These individuals would replace Southwood J. Morcott, Robert D. Kunisch and Elizabeth E. Bailey, each of whom has resigned effective upon his or her replacement taking office. The announcement was made today at the Companys reconvened 2008 annual meeting.
Jacksonville, FL  July 25, 2008 
We look forward to welcoming the new Board members and working together to continue delivering record performance for all shareholders, said Michael J. Ward, Chairman of the Board of CSX Corporation.
The status of two Board seats remains uncertain. One of the seats is the subject of questions in the vote review, which remains too close to call. The most recent preliminary draft report of the independent inspector of elections shows that the candidates competing for the seat have a difference of votes that is now less than 1/5 of 1 percent of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting and the status of a number of votes is still unclear. The preliminary vote report has already been revised several times to correct errors. The vote review process is expected to be completed soon, possibly as early as next week.
Both of those seats are the subject of an appeal pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that is on an expedited hearing schedule. The Company expects that these issues will be resolved in the next 60 days.
Pending the outcome of the vote review and the appeal, the annual meeting has been adjourned and will reconvene at 10:00 a.m. EDT on September 24, 2008 at the Company headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla.
About CSX
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck trainload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's web site, www.csx.com.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation
network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More
information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's website, www.csx.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others: (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives, (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


