FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20081014170400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 14, 2008, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report document on financial and operating results for the third quarter ended September 26, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 14, 2008

                                                                                                                                                             ;                   EXHIBIT 99.1
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
Third Quarter Highlights:
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today reported third quarter 2008 earnings from continuing operations of $382 million, or 94 cents per share. This represents a 40 percent increase from the same period last year. In 2007, CSX reported third quarter earnings of $297 million from continuing operations, or 67 cents per share.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Oct. 14, 2008) 
CSX delivered impressive financial results in a challenging economy, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and CEO. Our resilient business portfolio and disciplined operations continue to generate substantial earnings growth for shareholders.
Revenue increased 18 percent to nearly $3 billion, with nine of the companys 10 market segments producing revenue gains despite ongoing softness in the housing and automotive sectors of the economy. Those gains were led by shipments of export coal, grain, ethanol and metals, as well as strong yields and fuel recovery in all markets.
Revenue growth and moderating fuel costs, combined with the companys continued focus on productivity and cost control, increased operating income by 31 percent to $733 million, despite the impact of recent storms. In addition, the operating ratio improved 250 basis points to 75.2 percent, which represents a third quarter record.
Building on these results and taking into account current economic conditions, CSX is now targeting the low end of its earnings guidance of $3.65 to $3.75 per share. Through 2010, the company continues to target compound annual growth in operating income and EPS of 15 to 20 percent and 20 to 25 percent, respectively, as well as a high-60s operating ratio by 2010. The company also said it has strong liquidity, access to credit and expects free cash flow of approximately $1 billion in 2008.
CSX has momentum in our business and confidence in our ability to produce good results, even in periods of economic uncertainty, said Ward. In todays environment, manufacturers and distributors are highly focused on gaining greater efficiency in their supply chains and railroads offer them the best transportation alternative. Combine that with our strong performance in safety, service and productivity, and CSX is well positioned to deliver shareholder value in the near- and long-term.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Oct. 15, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
 

 
 
                                                         
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                      0;                                                                                        
 
Third Quarter Highlights:
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today reported third quarter 2008 earnings from continuing operations of $382 million, or 94 cents per share. This represents a 40 percent increase from the same period last year. In 2007, CSX reported third quarter earnings of $297 million from continuing operations, or 67 cents per share.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Oct. 14, 2008) 
CSX delivered impressive financial results in a challenging economy, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and CEO. Our resilient business portfolio and disciplined operations continue to generate substantial earnings growth for shareholders.
Revenue increased 18 percent to nearly $3 billion, with nine of the companys 10 market segments producing revenue gains despite ongoing softness in the housing and automotive sectors of the economy. Those gains were led by shipments of export coal, grain, ethanol and metals, as well as strong yields and fuel recovery in all markets.
Revenue growth and moderating fuel costs, combined with the companys continued focus on productivity and cost control, increased operating income by 31 percent to $733 million, despite the impact of recent storms. In addition, the operating ratio improved 250 basis points to 75.2 percent, which represents a third quarter record.
 
1
 
 
Building on these results and taking into account current economic conditions, CSX is now targeting the low end of its earnings guidance of $3.65 to $3.75 per share. Through 2010, the company continues to target compound annual growth in operating income and EPS of 15 to 20 percent and 20 to 25 percent, respectively, as well as a high-60s operating ratio by 2010. The company also said it has strong liquidity, access to credit and expects free cash flow of approximately $1 billion in 2008.
CSX has momentum in our business and confidence in our ability to produce good results, even in periods of economic uncertainty, said Ward. In todays environment, manufacturers and distributors are highly focused on gaining greater efficiency in their supply chains and railroads offer them the best transportation alternative. Combine that with our strong performance in safety, service and productivity, and CSX is well positioned to deliver shareholder value in the near- and long-term.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Oct. 15, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make
additional  updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
2
 
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
The Company was able to achieve continued pricing gains during the third quarter 2008 predominantly due to the overall cost advantages that rail-based solutions provide versus other modes of transportation. These pricing gains, and higher fuel recovery due to higher fuel prices, more than offset the continuing volume weakness in housing construction, domestic automobile production and related markets.
Merchandise
 Improved pricing and increased fuel recovery continued to drive revenue and revenue-per-unit gains.  Volume was down due to weakness in plastic shipments and chemicals used in construction and automobile production. Additionally, hurricanes forced a temporary shutdown of many chemical plants and refineries across the Texas and Louisiana Gulf coast late in the quarter.
Chemicals
, and  Revenue and revenue-per-unit increases were driven by pricing initiatives and favorable fuel recoveries.  Volume declines in lumber, building products, appliances and aggregates, which include crushed stone, sand and gravel, were due to continued softness in residential construction.
Emerging Markets,
Forest Products
Food and Consumer
 Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of ethanol and feed grain.  Gains in price and fuel surcharge recovery led to increases in revenue and revenue per unit.
Agricultural Products
 Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of scrap metal, steel used for non-residential construction, pipe and plate shipments.  Domestic production was strong, in part, due to declining imports.  Revenue and revenue-per-unit increases were driven primarily by improved pricing and increased fuel recovery.
Metals
 Revenue and revenue per unit increased due to favorable pricing actions and fuel recovery.  Large carryover fertilizer inventories from the first half of the year resulted in a decline in fertilizer moves.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
Coal
Sustained growth in yield and improved fuel recovery positively influenced revenue and revenue per unit. Volumes increased in the export market due to continued strong overseas demand.  These gains were partially offset by lower shipments to electric utilities.
Automotive
Revenue and volume were down due to declining sales of trucks and SUVs resulting from high fuel prices, the weak economic environment and tight credit conditions.  Revenue per unit improved due to price increases and higher fuel recoveries.
Intermodal Operating Revenue
 Revenue-per-unit increases were primarily driven by increased fuel recovery and yield management.  Volumes were down due to continued import softness as well as changes in international shipping patterns.
International
 Volume gains were driven by continued strength in truckload, transcontinental and short-haul services. Revenue-per-unit increases were primarily driven by increased fuel recovery as yield and mix impacts were relatively flat year-over-year.
Domestic
 
10
 
Expenses increased $285 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $6 million. This increase was primarily driven by wage and benefit inflation which was mostly offset by a reduction of train crew headcount due to lower volumes.
Labor and Fringe
expenses increased $97 million primarily as a result of the storms during the quarter, mostly the write-off of assets that were damaged, inflation and proxy-related costs.  Additionally, there was an increase in overall cost of risk, primarily driven by higher train-accident related expenses and various other items.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expenseincreased $178 million due to higher fuel prices which more than offset increased fuel efficiency and volume.
Fuel
 
expense increased $7 million. A larger asset base related to higher capital spending was partially offset by lower depreciation rates resulting from a previous periodic review of asset useful lives.   
Depreciation
expense decreased $8 million primarily due to the impacts of lower volume and reduced locomotive lease expense.
Equipment and Other Rents
increased $5 million driven by transcontinental volumes and inflation.
Inland Transportation
 
11
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 


