FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20091202164244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On November 30, 2009, the Company announced the retirement of Tony L. Ingram as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of CSX Transportation, effective as of December 31, 2009.  Mr. Ingram will be succeeded by David A. Brown, who currently serves as Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer of CSX Transportation, with operational responsibility for the railroad's 21,000 mile-transportation network.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CSX Transportation Names David Brown Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
 
 
Names Cindy Sanborn Vice President, Chief Transportation Officer
 
 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Nov. 30 /PRNewswire/ -- CSX Transportation (CSXT) announced today that David A. Brown will be named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer upon the retirement of Tony Ingram, December 31, 2009.
 
 
"I am excited about the leadership and experience David will provide. He is well qualified to continue the outstanding work of Tony Ingram and our team in safety, reliability and customer service," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman, president and CEO.
 
 
"Tony plans a well-deserved retirement after nearly 40 years in railroading. In the last few years, he has delivered to CSXT, its customers, employees and communities, one of the most successful operating tenures in U.S. railroading. Among many other accomplishments, Tony has built an exceptional team that will continue, and build upon, his remarkable legacy," Ward said.
 
 
Brown, 50, has a nearly 30-year railroad career, most recently serving as Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer, with operational responsibility for the railroad's 21,000 mile-transportation network. Brown holds a bachelor's degree in business administration with an emphasis on transportation from The University of Tennessee.
 
 
Succeeding Brown as Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer will be Cindy M. Sanborn, 44, who has been serving as Vice President-Northern region, responsible for operations and service.
 
 
"Cindy is a veteran railroader with vast knowledge of operations after more than 22 years of service. She has demonstrated strong leadership and delivered exceptional results in a variety of field and headquarters posts," Ward said.
 
 
Sanborn holds a bachelor's degree in computer science from Emory University and a master's in business administration from the University of Miami.
 
 
CSX Transportation Inc. is a principal operating company of CSX Corporation. CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's web site, .
www.csx.com
 
 
SOURCE CSX Transportation
 
Gary Sease, CSX Transportation, +1-877-835-5279
 
 
 


