FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20090414161752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On April 14, 2009, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report document on financial and operating results for the first quarter ended March 27, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report document is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 14, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
 
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
 
First Quarter :
Highlights
 
 
 
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced first quarter earnings of $246 million, or 62 cents a share, versus $351 million, or 85 cents per share, last year.  Excluding 5 cents per share from an equity earnings adjustment in the first quarter of 2008, comparable earnings per share declined 23 percent.  (See table below for reconciliation of quarter items to reported numbers.)
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Apr. 14, 2009) 
In this economic downturn, CSX is focusing sharply on the things that are more within our control  safety, customer service and productivity, said Michael Ward, chairman, president and CEO. We are taking tough actions to right-size our operations in this challenging environment.
First quarter revenues of $2.2 billion were down 17 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 17 percent decline in volume.  The volume declines were driven by significant weakness in industrial production, housing starts, and consumer spending, as well as in the agriculture and energy sectors.
In response to these conditions, CSX right-sized its train network and implemented a wide range of productivity initiatives.  As a result, operating expenses declined 17%, allowing the company to produce operating income of $522 million and an operating ratio of 76.8 percent for the quarter.
Our nation will continue to rely heavily on rail transportation to move vital goods, relieve traffic congestion, protect the environment and support American businesses, said Ward.  We can meet those needs with discipline in our operations, strategic investments in our system and sound public policy.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Apr. 15, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
GAAP Reconciliation
1
CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the companys business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the SEC may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results.
In press releases and presentation slides for stock analysts, CSX has provided financial information adjusted for certain items, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The companys management evaluates its business and makes certain operating decisions (e.g., budgeting, forecasting, employee compensation, asset management and resource allocation) using these adjusted numbers.
Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business operations as well as provides comparable historical information. Lastly, earnings forecasts prepared by stock analysts and other third parties generally exclude the effects of items that are difficult to predict or measure in advance and are not directly related to CSXs ongoing operations. A reconciliation between GAAP and the non-GAAP measure is provided above. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items;
statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and  managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate,  preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from  those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on  the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at .
www.csx.com
 
 
 

                                         
Exhibit 99.2
                           
 
 
 
First Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced first quarter earnings of $246 million, or 62 cents a share, versus $351 million, or 85 cents per share, last year.  Excluding 5 cents per share from an equity earnings adjustment in the first quarter of 2008, comparable earnings per share declined 23 percent.  (See table below for reconciliation of quarter items to reported numbers.)
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Apr. 14, 2009) 
In this economic downturn, CSX is focusing sharply on the things that are more within our control  safety, customer service and productivity, said Michael Ward, chairman, president and CEO. We are taking tough actions to right-size our operations in this challenging environment.
First quarter revenues of $2.2 billion were down 17 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 17 percent decline in volume.  The volume declines were driven by significant weakness in industrial production, housing starts, and consumer spending, as well as in the agriculture and energy sectors.
In response to these conditions, CSX right-sized its train network and implemented a wide range of productivity initiatives.  As a result, operating expenses declined 17%, allowing the company to produce operating income of $522 million and an operating ratio of 76.8 percent for the quarter.
Our nation will continue to rely heavily on rail transportation to move vital goods, relieve traffic congestion, protect the environment and support American businesses, said Ward.  We can meet those needs with discipline in our operations, strategic investments in our system and sound public policy.
 
 
1
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on Apr. 15, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
GAAP Reconciliation
1
CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the companys business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the SEC may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results.
In press releases and presentation slides for stock analysts, CSX has provided financial information adjusted for certain items, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The companys management evaluates its business and makes certain operating decisions (e.g., budgeting, forecasting, employee compensation, asset management and resource allocation) using these adjusted numbers.
Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business operations as well as provides comparable historical information. Lastly, earnings forecasts prepared by stock analysts and other third parties generally exclude the effects of items that are difficult to predict or measure in advance and are not directly related to CSXs ongoing operations. A reconciliation between GAAP and the non-GAAP measure is provided above. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
 
2
 
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items;
statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and  managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate,  preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at .
www.csx.com
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
Greenbrier Hotel Corporation Bankruptcy Filing
On March 19, 2009, Greenbrier Hotel Corporation (GHC), owner of The Greenbrier resort and subsidiary of CSX Corporation, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. CSX has agreed to extend up to $19 million in bankruptcy financing to GHC.
In conjunction with the bankruptcy, GHC also announced an agreement to sell the resort pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (Agreement) with Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. (Marriott).  The Agreement remains subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and contemplates that CSX will provide $50 million to be used in the operations of the resort after completion of the sale.  These funds are expected to be paid over a two-year period following the closing of the transaction.  In turn, Marriott would pay GHC between $60 million and $130 million within approximately seven years, with the actual amount depending on the timing of the payment and The Greenbriers financial performance.
The sale to Marriott is expected to close later this year, but is contingent on various closing conditions, including the ability of The Greenbrier and its unions to negotiate labor contracts satisfactory to Marriott.  It is also subject to a Bankruptcy Court-supervised auction process in which other qualified purchasers will have an opportunity to bid on the resort.  Currently, the bid and auction process are scheduled in June 2009.
At this time, this transaction does not qualify for discontinued operations under SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets due to the nature of certain closing conditions under the Agreement.  Once these conditions have been satisfied, it is likely that the resorts results of operations will be reclassified into discontinued operations.
 
7
 
 
8
 
Certain data within Merchandise categories have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
9
 
CSX experienced significant year-over-year volume and revenue losses caused by the broad-based weakness in the economy.  The greatest impact from the economic conditions was in construction and consumer related markets. Despite the challenging environment, the Companys ongoing yield management initiatives offset lower fuel recovery associated with the sharp decline in fuel prices.
Rail
Merchandise
 Continued weakness in the housing, automotive and consumer goods markets has significantly reduced demand for chemical products related to those markets.
Chemicals
 Aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) volume declined due to continued softness in residential construction.
Emerging Markets
 A weak housing market has driven the continued decline of lumber and building products.  Paper volume continued to be soft due to electronic media substitution and less packaging being used as a result of slower consumer spending.
Forest Products
 Volume was flat as increased shipments of ethanol and corn were offset by declines in wheat, soybeans and exports. Strength in corn and ethanol shipments positively impacted revenue and revenue per unit.
Agricultural Products
 Volume declines were driven by weak global and domestic steel demand in the automotive and construction industries.  This weak demand, combined with the credit crisis, caused steel producers to take capacity out of the market in an attempt to balance supply with demand.
Metals
 Phosphate production was down due to weak international and domestic demand.  Additionally, farmers are cutting back on levels of phosphate and potash application in reaction to lower commodity prices.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Weakness in residential construction caused reduced shipments of appliances and other consumer goods.
Food and Consumer
Coal
Volume declines were driven by a weaker export market and lower demand from electric utilities.  The demand for electrical generation from coal was down because of low natural gas prices and lower industrial production.
Automotive
Revenue and volume were down due to declining new car sales resulting from the weak economic environment and low consumer confidence.
Intermodal
 Volume was down significantly on continued import declines and slowing exports due to the global economic recession. Revenue-per-unit was lower on decreased fuel recovery, partially offset by long-term contract price increases.
International
 Volume was flat as continued growth in new truckload conversion and short-haul services help offset the decline in other segments of the domestic market. Revenue-per-unit was lower on decreased fuel recovery and a competitive trucking pricing environment.
Domestic
 
10
 
Expenses decreased $362 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense decreased $83 million.  This decrease was primarily driven by labor productivity initiatives, such as employee furloughs and reduced crew overtime, and lower incentive compensation.  These decreases were partially offset by inflation and other items.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $28 million.  This decrease was primarily due to lower volume, decreased cost of risks, lower bad debt expense related to improved collectibility of receivables and other items.  These decreases were partially offset by increased inflation.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense decreased $250 million due to lower fuel prices and lower volume.
Fuel
 
Equipment and Other Rents
expense increased by $2 million.  Lower volume resulted in lower car hire expense, but was offset by lower car productivity and higher settlement estimates with other railroads.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
11
 
12
 
 
13
 


