FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20091013160443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 13, 2009, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the third quarter ended September 25, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 13, 2009
 
 
 

 
 
 
Contact:
 
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights:
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced third quarter earnings from continuing operations of $293 million, or 74 cents a share, versus $380 million, or 93 cents a share, in the same period last year.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Oct. 13, 2009) 
Third quarter revenues of $2.3 billion were down 23 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 15 percent decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge recovery. At the same time, core pricing remained strong and consistent with prior quarters, reflecting high service levels and the overall value of rail transportation.  While volumes declined across the business, the rate of decline continued to slow in nearly all markets compared to the second quarter.
The third quarter reinforces our view that the worst of the recession is likely behind us, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  At the same time, our coal business will be impacted by weak demand well into 2010.
CSX continued to improve its network efficiency and safety while reducing operating costs by 24 percent compared to the same period last year. As a result of these efforts and a sustained focus on yield management, CSX produced operating income of $598 million and a third quarter record operating ratio of 73.9 percent.
The CSX team is clearly demonstrating that it can achieve excellence in any environment, said Ward.  As the economy regains strength, we are emerging as a stronger, leaner company in an industry that is positioned to grow over the long term.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 14, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights:
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced third quarter earnings from continuing operations of $293 million, or 74 cents a share, versus $380 million, or 93 cents a share, in the same period last year.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Oct. 13, 2009) 
Third quarter revenues of $2.3 billion were down 23 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 15 percent decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge recovery. At the same time, core pricing remained strong and consistent with prior quarters, reflecting high service levels and the overall value of rail transportation.  While volumes declined across the business, the rate of decline continued to slow in nearly all markets compared to the second quarter.
The third quarter reinforces our view that the worst of the recession is likely behind us, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  At the same time, our coal business will be impacted by weak demand well into 2010.
CSX continued to improve its network efficiency and safety while reducing operating costs by 24 percent compared to the same period last year. As a result of these efforts and a sustained focus on yield management, CSX produced operating income of $598 million and a third quarter record operating ratio of 73.9 percent.
The CSX team is clearly demonstrating that it can achieve excellence in any environment, said Ward.  As the economy regains strength, we are emerging as a stronger, leaner company in an industry that is positioned to grow over the long term.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
 
 
1
 
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 14, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
2
 
(a) In second quarter 2009, CSX sold the stock of a subsidiary that indirectly owned Greenbrier Hotel Corporation, owner of The Greenbrier resort. Previously, all amounts associated with the operations of The Greenbrier were included in other income  net.  Because of the sale, The Greenbriers results of operations are reported as discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated income statements and all prior periods have been reclassified.
3
 
4
 
(a) Property additions, which are classified as investing activities on the consolidated cash flow statements, consisted of $1 billion and $1.3 billion for nine months 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Total capital expenditures for nine months 2009 also include approximately $160 million of new assets purchased using seller financing, which are included in other financing activities on the consolidated cash flow statements.  There were no purchases of new assets under seller financing agreements during 2008.
 
5
 
 
 
 The Company derives income from items that are not considered operating activities.  Income from these items is reported net of related expense in other income  net on the consolidated income statements.  Other income  net consists primarily of interest income, income from real estate and miscellaneous income (expense).
   
 
 Interest income fluctuates as a result of interest rates and balances that earn interest based on CSXs cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  Income from real estate includes the results of operations of the Companys non-operating real estate sales, leasing, acquisition and management and development activities.  This real estate income may fluctuate as a function of timing of real estate sales.  Miscellaneous income includes a number of items which can be income or expense.  Examples of these items are equity earnings or losses, noncontrolling minority interest expense, investment gains and losses and other non-operating activities.  Other income  net consisted of the following:
   
 
6
 
 
7
 
Certain data within Merchandise categories have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
8
 
 
CSX experienced another quarter of significant year-over-year volume and revenue declines caused by the broad-based weakness in the economy.  The greatest volume declines occurred in coal, automotive, construction and consumer-related markets.  Lower fuel recovery associated with the sharp decline in fuel prices more than offset the Companys ongoing yield management initiatives.  Compared to the second quarter, the rate of volume decline moderated during third quarter 2009.
 
Rail
Merchandise
The merchandise business is the most diverse market and includes aggregates, metal, phosphate, fertilizer, food, consumer, agricultural, paper and chemical products.  Continued weakness in the housing and construction, automotive and consumer goods markets has significantly reduced demand for most merchandise markets.  Additional information on other drivers is provided below.
- The largest decline in volume was experienced in metals driven by weak global and domestic steel demand in the automotive and construction industries.  The decline in demand moderated during the quarter due to low inventories and an improvement in automotive production.
Metals
- - Volume was down slightly as the continuing growth in ethanol was more than offset by lower production of poultry which negatively impacted the feed grain, soybean and feed ingredient markets.
Agricultural Products
 Strong demand for export phosphate was more than offset by declines in domestic shipments.  Additionally, farmers are continuing to cut back on levels of phosphate and potash application in reaction to lower commodity prices for grain.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
Coal
Volume declines were driven by lower demand from electric utilities and a weaker export market.  The demand for domestic electrical generation from coal was down due to natural gas substitution and lower industrial production resulting in a further building of utility stockpiles to record levels.  Current inventories represent over two times the monthly rate of consumption.  As a result, utility coal demand is expected to remain weak well into 2010.  The export market decline was a result of both lower steel production in Europe reducing the need for metallurgical coal (coal used to produce steel), and cheaper alternative global sources for European utilities.
Automotive
Revenue and volume were down as lower consumer demand and inventory corrections within the auto industry reduced new car production.  Volume improved slightly compared to the prior quarter as the Cash for Clunkers program, a part of the government stimulus plan that has ended, helped spur sales.
Intermodal
 Volume continued to be down due to both weak imports and exports. However, volume improved throughout the quarter due to some signs of stabilization and slight improvement in the global economy. Revenue-per-unit was lower on significantly decreased fuel recovery, partially offset by contract price increases.
International
 Volume was up as continued truck conversion and expanded service offerings helped offset the decline in other segments of the domestic market.  Revenue-per-unit was lower on decreased fuel recovery and a continued competitive truck pricing environment.
Domestic
 
9
 
Expenses decreased $537 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense decreased $101 million. This decrease was primarily driven by labor productivity initiatives, such as employee furloughs and reduced crew overtime, and lower incentive compensation.  These decreases were partially offset by inflation and cycling of favorable prior year items.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $140 million. 
Materials, Supplies and Other
This decrease was due to the current year decline in volume-related expenses, prior year storm and proxy-related items not repeated in the current year. Additional savings were realized through improved safety and various other items, the majority of which were favorable current quarter items that are not expected to repeat next quarter.
expense decreased $285 million primarily due to lower fuel prices and lower volume.
Fuel
 
expense decreased $14 million primarily due to cost savings associated with lower volume.
Equipment and Other Rents
         
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
12
 


