FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20090511165833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)  On May 5, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of CSX Corporation (CSX) approved and adopted a long-term incentive program (the Program), which covers approximately 650 participants (the Participants) under the shareholder-approved CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan.  The Program seeks to motivate, reward and retain the Participants over a three-year period.  It is comprised of two separate componentsPerformance Grants and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs).
 
The Performance Grants were awarded under the CSX 2009-2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (the Plan), which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1. Payouts of the Performance Grants will be based on the achievement of CSXs pre-established Operating Ratio target for fiscal year 2011, and will be paid out, if at all, in the form of CSX common stock in early 2012.  The Plan requires significant Operating Ratio improvement over the most recently completed fiscal year.  Payouts for certain executive officers are subject to discretionary downward adjustment by up to 30% based upon additional pre-established strategic initiatives. CSXs Operating Ratio is defined as consolidated operating expenses divided by operating revenue and is calculated excluding non-recurring items. The Operating Ratio target that determines payouts may also vary based on the average cost of oil.
 
The RSUs were granted to the Participants on May 5, 2009 and included the following specific grants to the named executive officers:  Michael J. Ward - 36,616; Oscar Munoz - 13,731; Tony L. Ingram - 13,731; Clarence W. Gooden - 13,731; and Ellen M. Fitzsimmons - 9,154.  The RSUs vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.  A form of restricted stock agreement is attached hereto as exhibit 10.2.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
As previously reported, on March 19, 2009, Greenbrier Hotel Corporation (GHC), owner of The Greenbrier resort and then an indirect subsidiary of CSX, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division (Bankruptcy Court).  In conjunction with the bankruptcy, GHC also announced an agreement to sell the resort pursuant to an asset purchase agreement with Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. (the APA).
 
On May 6, 2009, CSX sold the stock of a subsidiary that indirectly owns GHC to Justice Family Group, LLC (JFG) for approximately $20 million in cash.  The previously reported bankruptcy financing that CSX made available to The Greenbrier was paid down and no amounts were outstanding thereunder at the time of the sale.  JFG has provided funds for future draws under the financing facility.  CSX has no other continuing obligations to finance post-sale resort operations.  CSX has assumed responsibility for certain pre-closing Greenbrier pension obligations.
CSX has been advised by JFG that, on May 8, 2009, GHC filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court seeking the dismissal of GHCs pending bankruptcy proceeding and the termination of the APA.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
Purpose and Objective
The CSX Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP or the Plan) is the vehicle pursuant to which CSX Corporation (CSX) awards Performance Grants, as described in Section 8 of the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan. The purpose of LTIP is to reward eligible employees for their contribution to the attainment of improved operating results which is intended to result in CSX share price appreciation. Grant amounts, approved by the Compensation Committee of CSXs Board of Directors (the Committee), are based on an employees job position, accountability, and the potential to impact CSXs financial results.
The Plan seeks to motivate and reward employees through the issuance of Performance Grants, represented in the form of units. Grants are payable upon achievement of certain levels of Operating Ratio (as defined herein) during a given performance period and are referred to as Performance Awards at the time of payment.  Performance Awards are payable in the form of CSX common stock.
Effective Date and Term
The 20092011 LTIP Cycle (the 20092011 Cycle or Cycle) is the three-year period during which performance is measured.  The Cycle commences May 5, 2009 (the Effective Date) and ends December 30, 2011.
Eligibility and Participation
Active employees of CSX or a participating affiliate (the Company or collectively, the Companies) in salary Band 06 and above as of the Effective Date shall participate in the 20092011 LTIP Cycle (Participants) and shall receive Performance Grants in accordance with the dollar value schedule approved by the Committee. The CSX Compensation and Benefits Department calculates the Performance Grants for each salary band level. The Performance Grant schedule is maintained in the office of the Plan Administrator.
Employees hired or promoted into Band 06 and above after the Effective Date and before the end of the 20092011 Cycle will receive a pro rata allocation of Performance Grants based on their participation (and status as full time or part-time).  Participants who are moved to a higher or lower Band during the Cycle will receive a pro rata reallocation of Performance Grants pertaining to each applicable Band based upon the number of months of participation in each Band relative to the number of months in the Cycle.  The same pro rata method will be used for employees who transfer between union and non-union employment. For purposes of the pro rata calculation, participation begins on the first day of the month following the date the Participant was hired, promoted, demoted, or transferred.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Participant who is hired at or promoted to a salary level making such Participant a covered employee under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) must have had a period of service of at least 3 months to qualify for a Performance Grant at that level. In such cases, the pro rata calculation shall be made as of the date of hire or promotion.
Plan Design
Performance Grant Value
Under the long-term incentive compensation program design, the Committee approves the annual competitive dollar value of long-term incentive compensation for each Band. For the 2009-2011 Cycle, performance units comprise 75% of the value approved by the Committee and restricted stock units comprise the other 25% which is provided in a separate grant.
Performance Units are calculated by dividing the annual grant value for each Band by the average closing price of CSX common stock during the most recent three months preceding the Effective Date.  For the 2009-2011 Cycle, the average stock price equaled $27.31, representing the months of February, March and April 2009.  This price is used solely to determine the number of Performance Units granted to each Participant at the commencement of the Cycle.
Performance Measure
Operating Ratio is the single performance measure used in the 2009-2011 Cycle and is defined as consolidated CSX Corporation operating expenses divided by operating revenue.  It is calculated excluding nonrecurring items disclosed in the financial statements.  Performance achievement for the Cycle is based on Operating Ratio as measured in the third and final year of the Cycle (2011).
Using this measure to determine payout levels reinforces the correlation between an improving Operating Ratio and an increasing stock price.  Efforts to improve the Operating Ratio align CSXs business objectives in a way that allows individuals to equate personal actions to desired performance outcomes.  Each Plan Participant should be motivated to grow revenue, reduce expense, improve service, increase productivity, improve safety, and increase asset utilization and rationalization.
As the price of fuel has a significant impact on this particular performance measure, the Operating Ratio targets vary based on the average cost of oil per barrel outside of a pre-determined range (fuel collar) established at the beginning of the Cycle based on the average price per barrel of oil according to West Texas Intermediate (WTI).  The chart in Exhibit A reflects the Operating Ratio targets and related Performance Awards at various WTI per barrel oil prices and provides a payout example.
Performance Awards
As shown in the Performance Measure Table in Exhibit A Performance Awards are paid as a percentage of a Participants Performance Unit Grant based upon the applicable CSX 2011 Operating Ratio discussed above.  All Performance Awards will be paid in CSX common stock.
,
Impact of Change in Employment Status
Performance Awards will be paid only to Participants who are actively employed by the Companies at the end of the applicable three-year performance cycle. Except as provided below, all other Participants whose employment terminates prior to the end of the Cycle shall forfeit any and all Performance Grants and thus receive no Performance Award. All Performance Awards will be payable no later than March 15 following the end of the Cycle.
A Participant whose employment terminates due to death, disability, or retirement, shall be eligible to receive a pro rata Performance Award under the LTIP if the Participant would have received a Performance Award had there been no death, disability, or retirement.  The pro rata Performance Award will be determined based upon the number of months of participation relative to the number of months in the Cycle.  Retirement shall mean (i) the attainment of age 55 and 10 years of Company service, or (ii) the attainment of age 65. Disability shall mean long-term disability as defined in the CSX Corporation Salary Continuance and Long-Term Disability Plan.  In the case of death, such Performance Awards shall be made to the Participants estate, or as otherwise directed by law.
2
Participants whose hours are reduced so that they are no longer full time active employees during the 20092011 LTIP Cycle, as a result of a phased retirement or similar program at the request of or with the consent of CSX, shall be entitled to a pro rata Performance Award to the date of such change, and a pro rata reduced Performance Award for the remaining portion of such 20092011 Cycle worked based on the reduced hours.
A Participant who commits an act involvingmoral turpitude that adversely affects the reputation or business of the Companies or violates the conditions stated in (i) through (v) of the Claw Back Provision contained herein, shall forfeit any Performance Grant.  Examples of acts of moral turpitude include dishonesty or fraud involving the Companies, their employees, vendors or customers and violations of CSXs Code of Ethics.
 
No Performance Award is considered earned under the Plan until the Compensation Committee approves the Operating Ratio level of achievement for the Cycle and approves the Payment Awards.
Taxation of Performance Awards
Performance Awards will be paid in shares of CSX common stock.  The value received by the Participant is taxable income, therefore CSX is required to withhold income taxes at the prescribed rates for both supplemental income and employment taxes at the time the Performance Awards are paid.  CSX will withhold the minimum number of shares (in whole shares) equal in value to such required amount.  No additional voluntary withholding amount is permitted.  An example of the withholding calculation is shown in Exhibit A.  Participants in the CSX Executive Deferred Compensation Plan may defer receipt of Performance Awards.
Plan Administration
The Senior Vice President - Human Resources and Labor Relations of CSX shall be the Plan Administrator and shall interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan subject to the terms of the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan and the Compensation Committees authority and responsibility under the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan and Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
Plan Amendments and Termination
Consistent with Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m),the Compensation Committee reserves the right to terminate, adjust, amend, or suspend the Plan at any time and at its sole discretion.
 
Claw Back Provision
The Claw Back Provision discussed herein applies only to Participants in Band 10 and above.
If such Participant receives a Performance Award, the following terms and conditions shall apply for the subsequent two-year period from the payout (whether or not such Participant continues to be employed by the Company).
3
Such Participants, shall
If a Participant breaches any of the conditions set forth above in this Claw Back Provision, the Participant shall repay to the Company an amount equal to the value of the Performance Award.  The value of the Performance Award is measured by the amount reported on Form W-2 for tax purposes.  Any amount due hereunder shall be paid by the Participant within thirty (30) days of notice by the Company to the Participant that the Participant has breached a condition stated above.
In the event of Company accounting irregularities discovered within 2 years after receipt of Performance Awards, which requires the Company to materially restate its financial statements, the Participant shall repay all amounts in excess of the proper Award as determined under the restated financial statements.
By accepting a Performance Award, the Participant authorizes the Company to withhold, to the extent permitted by law, the amount it may otherwise owe to the Participant in any other capacity whatsoever. In cases where all or part of the Performance Award is deferred under the CSX Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, breach of these conditions shall result in an immediate forfeiture of the portion deferredincluding any earnings thereon from the date of deferral.
The Claw Back provision shall not survive any change in control event as defined in the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan ocurring during the Cycle.
Consideration for Noncompete Agreement
In consideration for eligibility under this 20092011 LTIP Cycle, Employees in Band 10 and above  must enter into a noncompete agreement, if not already in effect, as prescribed and agreed to by CSX.  Eligibility in the 20092011 LTIP Cycle for Employees in Band 10 and above is conditioned upon the existence of such noncompete agreement.
Miscellaneous
The adoption of the 20092011 Cycle of the LTIP does not imply any commitment to continue the Plan or any other long term incentive compensation plan or program for any succeeding year or period. Neither the Plan, nor any Performance Grant or Performance Award made under the Plan shall create any employment contract or relationship between the Companies and any Participant.
Committee  Discretion
The Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, may also reduce any payout otherwise earned by Executive Team Participants by up to 30% based upon accomplishment of certain company initiatives set forth in Exhibit B.
4
Exhibit A
Exhibit A contains specific quantitative or qualitative performance-related factors considered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, or other factors or criteria involving confidential trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information, the disclosure of which would result in competitive harm for CSX.
 
5
 
Exhibit B
Exhibit B contains specific quantitative or qualitative performance-related factors considered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, or other factors or criteria involving confidential trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information, the disclosure of which would result in competitive harm for CSX.
 
6
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of May 5, 2009, by and between CSX CORPORATION (CSX), a Virginia corporation, and __________ (the Recipient).
 
WHEREAS, CSX intends to create a compensation incentive for Recipient to remain as an employee of CSX.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of their mutual promises and undertakings, CSX and Recipient mutually agree as follows:
 
1.           In consideration of Recipients continued and uninterrupted employment with CSX, or an Affiliate thereof, for the period from May 5, 2009 through May 4, 2012 (the Employment Period), the Recipient is hereby granted __________ restricted stock units (RSUs) wherein each unit represents one share of CSX Corporation common stock, $1 par value (CSX Stock).  Except as provided below in Section 2, the RSUs vest upon completion of the Employment Period and are awarded as soon as practicable thereafter in the form of CSX Stock.  The grant hereunder is made under CSXs Omnibus Incentive Plan (the Plan), the provisions of which are thereby incorporated by reference.  During the Employment Period, CSX will pay to Recipient, based upon the number of RSUs granted, an amount equal to dividends (Dividend Equivalents) declared and payable on the CSX common stock net of applicable withholding taxes.
 
2. 
   
In the event of a termination of Recipients employment before the end of the Employment Period, by reason of Recipients death or Disability, full and immediate vesting shall apply, and CSX Stock shall be awarded immediately. In the event of a termination of Recipients employment before the end of the Employment Period by reason of Retirement, pro rata vesting shall apply, and CSX Stock shall be awarded in December of the year in which such retirement occurs.
For purposes of this Agreement, Retirement shall mean the attainment of age 55 and 10 years of service with the Company or an Affiliate, or attainment of age 65.  Disability shall mean the Recipients becoming disabled within the meaning of the long-term disability plan of the Company covering the Recipient.
 
Any RSUs granted to the Recipient that do not vest during the Employment Period shall be forfeited.
 
3.           Recipient shall be solely responsible for any and all federal, state, and local taxes which may be imposed as a result of the vesting of the RSU grant, the receipt of CSX Stock, and receipt of dividends.
 
4.           In the event of any change (such as recapitalization, merger, consolidation, stock dividend, or otherwise) in the character or amount of CSX Corporation common stock, $1 par value prior to delivery of CSX Stock, (a) the number of shares of CSX Stock to which Recipient shall be entitled at delivery shall be the same as if the recipient had actually owned CSX Stock instead of RSUs at the time of such change, and (b) the amount of Dividend Equivalents payable on the RSUs shall also be based upon such change.
 
5.           Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted or construed to create a contract of employment between the Company and the Recipient.  This Agreement is intended solely to provide Recipient an incentive to continue existing employment.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date indicated below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


