FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20090109164928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
Section 16(b) Settlement
A federal court in New York issued an order preliminarily approving a settlement reached by all parties to a civil action brought by plaintiff, Deborah Donoghue, a shareholder of CSX Corporation (CSX), to recover so-called short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) alleged to have been realized by defendants The Childrens Investment Fund and 3G Capital Partners LP in connection with their purchases and sales of CSX securities.  CSX is party to the suit in name only, which was brought for the benefit of CSX.  The court will hold a hearing on March 5, 2009 at 10 a.m. to determine whether to issue a final order approving the settlement.  If approved, CSX will receive $10 million from The Childrens Investment Fund and $1 million from 3G Capital Partners LP and the defendants will be released from claims of violations of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.  Additional information, including preliminary documentation filed by the parties with the court on December 16, 2008, is contained in a Form 8-K report filed by CSX on December 17, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The foregoing description of the settlement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Preliminary Order in connection with Settlement Proceedings and the Notice of Pendency of Derivative Action, and Hearing on Proposed Settlement and of Application for Award of Attorneys Fees, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 20.1 and 20.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.  A copy of the press release issued by CSX is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 9, 2008
 
 3
 

Exhibit 20.1
 
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
 
 
 
     WHEREAS, on December 16, 2008, the parties to the above-captioned action (the Action) entered into a Stipulation of Settlement (the Stipulation or the Settlement) which has been submitted for review and which, together with the exhibits thereto, sets forth the terms and conditions for the proposed settlement of the Action and all claims in the Amended Complaint and dismissal of the Amended Complaint on the merits and with prejudice, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Stipulation; and the Court having read and considered the Stipulation and the accompanying documents; and the parties to the Stipulation having consented to the entry of this Order; and all capitalized terms used herein having the meanings defined in the Stipulation,
   
 
 
NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED this 5th day of January, 2009, that:
1.           A hearing (the Settlement Fairness Hearing) is hereby scheduled to be held before the Court on March 5, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. in Courtroom 14A at the United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York for the following purposes:
a)           to determine whether the proposed Settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate and should be approved by the Court;
b)           to determine whether the Order and Final Judgment, as provided for in the Stipulation, should be entered, dismissing the Amended Complaint herein, on the merits and with prejudice, and to determine whether the release by the Plaintiff and by CSX, as set forth in the Stipulation, should be provided to the Defendants;
c)           to rule on Plaintiffs application for an attorneys fee and reimbursement of costs and expenses; and
d)           to rule upon such other matters as the Court may deem appropriate.
2.           The Court reserves the right to approve the Settlement without further notice of any kind and to adjourn the Settlement Fairness Hearing without further notice, other than announcement thereof in open Court at the above time and place.  The Court further reserves the right to enter its Order and Final Judgment approving the Stipulation and dismissing the Complaint as to the Defendants on the merits and with prejudice, regardless of whether it has awarded Plaintiffs attorneys fees and reimbursement of costs and expenses.
 
2
 
3.           The Court approves the form, substance and requirements of the Notice of Pendency of Derivative Action and Hearing on Proposed Settlement and Attorneys Fee Petition (the Notice), as set forth in and attached as Exhibit B to the Stipulation.
4.           CSX shall cause the Notice, substantially in the form annexed as Exhibit B to the Stipulation, to be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, within two days of entry of this order, to all shareholders of CSX who filed a current Form 13F, Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and place a copy of the Notice on its website.  In addition, the Notice shall be filed with the SEC on a Form 8-K within two days of entry of this Order and CSX shall issue a press release on the same date.
5.           The form and method set forth herein of notifying CSX shareholders and owners of any securities (as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act) of CSX or of any other security or instrument, the value of which is derived from the value of any CSX equity security, of the Settlement and of its terms and conditions meet the requirements of due process, constitute the best notice practicable under the circumstances, and shall constitute due and sufficient notice to all persons and entities entitled thereto.
6.           CSX shareholders and owners of any CSX securities (as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act) of CSX or of any other security or instrument, the value of which is derived from the value of any CSX equity security, shall be bound by all determinations and judgments in this Action, whether favorable or unfavorable.
 
3
 
7.           The Court will consider comments and/or objections to the Stipulation of Settlement, and to the application for an award of an attorneys fee and reimbursement of costs and expenses to plaintiffs counsel only if, on or before March 2, 2009, such comments or objections and any supporting papers:  (i) are filed in writing with the Clerk of the Court, United States District Court, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York 10007, and (ii) copies of all such papers are served upon:
Miranda Schiller
Weil, Gotshal & Manges, LLP
767 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10153
 
Attorneys for CSX Disinterested Directors
 
 
Attendance at the hearing is not necessary; however, persons wishing to be heard orally in opposition to the approval of the Stipulation and/or the request for attorneys fees are required to indicate, in their written objection, their intention to appear at the hearing.  Persons who intend to object to the Stipulation and/or counsels application for an award of an attorneys fee and reimbursement of costs and expenses and who desire to present evidence at the Settlement Fairness Hearing, must include in their written objections the identity of any witness they may call to testify and a list of any exhibits they intend to introduce into evidence at the Settlement Fairness Hearing.
 
4
 
     8.           If:  (a) any specified condition to the Settlement set forth in the Stipulation is not satisfied and the satisfaction of such condition is not waived in writing by counsel for the Plaintiff, CSX and the Defendants; (b) the Court rejects, in any respect, the Order and Final Judgment in substantially the form and content annexed to the Stipulation as Exhibit C, and/or counsel for Plaintiff, CSX and the Defendants all fail to consent to entry of another form of order in lieu thereof; (c) the Court rejects the Stipulation, including any amendment thereto approved by each of counsel for Plaintiff, CSX and the Defendants; or (d) the Court approves the Stipulation, including any amendment thereto approved by each of counsel for Plaintiff, CSX and the Defendants, but such approval or Order and Final Judgment is reversed, vacated or modified on appeal and such reversal, vacatur or modification becomes final by lapse of time or otherwise, then, in any such event, the Stipulation (except as to paragraphs 4(c), 6 and 13(a), which shall survive, including any amendment(s) thereto), shall be null and void, of no further force or effect, and without prejudice to any party, and may not be introduced as an admission or other evidence against any party, or referred to in this Action or other actions or proceedings by any person or entity, and each party shall be restored, to his, her or its respective position as it existed prior to the execution of the Stipulation.
   
nunc pro tunc
               9.           The Court retains exclusive jurisdiction over the action to consider all further matters arising out of or connected with the Stipulation or the enforcement thereof, or proceedings in connection therewith.
 
Dated:    New York, New York
January 5, 2009
 
 
 
5
 
 

 
Exhibit 20.2
 
 
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
This Notice is given pursuant to an Order of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court).  The purpose of this Notice is to advise of a proposed Settlement (the Settlement) involving defendants, The Childrens Investment Master Fund (TCI), The Childrens Investment Fund Management (UK) LLP, The Childrens Investment Fund Management (Cayman) Ltd., Christopher Hohn, Timothy OToole, 3G Fund LP (3G), 3G Capital Partners Ltd., 3G Capital Partners LP, Alexandre Behring, and Gilbert Lamphere (the Settling Defendants or Defendants) in the above-captioned action (the Action).  The terms of the Settlement are set forth in a Stipulation of Settlement dated December 16, 2008, on file with the Court.  A hearing will be held before Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum in Courtroom 14A of the United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York on March 5, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. (the Settlement Fairness Hearing) to determine whether the Settlement is fair, reasonable and adequate, and to consider the application of Plaintiff for attorneys fees.  The Settlement provides for an aggregate payment by the Defendants of $11,000,000 (the Settlement Payment) to CSX Corporation (CSX).  Counsel for the Plaintiff who brought this Action intends to request that the Court award $550,000 for attorneys fees and expenses.  CSX has agreed to support this application.  Any award of fees and expenses will be paid from the Settlement Payment and such award will reduce the amount of the Settlement Payment to CSX.
 
 
 
Nature of the Claims and Defenses
The Action affected by this Settlement is based on an amended complaint which was filed by the Plaintiff as a shareholder of CSX and derivatively for its benefit against the Defendants and which asserted claims under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act).  Section 16(b) permits an issuer of registered equity securities to recover certain trading profits, as defined by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), resulting from the purchase and sale of securities within a period of less than six months by, among others, investors who beneficially owned in excess of 10 percent of the issuers stock.  Recovery under the statute does not turn in any way on the wrongdoing of the defendant; rather, it is based solely on the existence and timing of purchases and sales under the definition of these terms set forth by the SEC rules and judicial decisions.
 
2
 
Plaintiffs theory of liability in this action is based on a June 11, 2008 Opinion and Final Judgment (Opinion) issued in an action entitled , 08 Civ. 2764 (LAK) (the 13D Action), which was brought by CSX against defendants for alleged violations of Section 13(d) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act.  CSX brought the 13D Action in order to restrin the Defendants (other than Timothy OToole and Gilbert Lamphere) from voting or soliciting proxies at CSXs annual meeting on the grounds that they allegedly failed to timely file a Schedule 13D disclosing, among other things, their acquisition of 5 percent of CSXs common stock, and that they had formed a group with the objective of waging a proxy fight to support their nominees to CSXs Board of Directors.  Although the court denied CSXs motion to enjoin defendants from voting or soliciting proxies, it made certain findings in the 13D Action that provide the basis of plaintiffs theory of liability in this Action.  First, the court found that TCI and 3G formed a group and attained beneficial ownership surpassing the 5 percent threshold of stock ownership and failed to timely disclose their ownership plans.  Second, the court found that, under Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act, TCI may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of CSX common stock owned by several banks that had purchased CSX stock (the Hedged Shares) in order to hedge transactions in cash-settled equity swaps (the equity swaps) that had been initiated by TCI.  Based on the Opinion in the 13D Action, plaintiff in this action alleges that each time TCI entered into an equity swap contract with a bank, the purchase of the Hedged Shares by the bank constituted a purchase by TCI under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act because TCI was the beneficial owner of those shares under Rule 13d-3.  Plaintiff further alleges that each of those purchases is matchable against sales of the Hedged Shares by the banks.  CSX established in the 13D Action that, with minor exceptions, whenever TCI terminated a swap agreement or the swap agreement expired, the counterparty bank sold about the same number of Hedged Shares and it did so on or about the same day that the swap was terminated.  CSX and plaintiff contend that if TCIs transactions in equity swaps during 2007 are deemed to give rise to the beneficial ownership of the Hedged Shares, the maximum disgorgable profits that are recoverable from TCI are as high as $128 million.
CSX Corp. v. The Childrens Investment Fund Management (UK) LLP, et al.
a
 
3
 
Plaintiffs theory of liability against 3G hinges on another finding in the 13D Action that 3G was a member of a group along with TCI and the other Defendants within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act so that its beneficial ownership reached the 10 percent threshold that must be established for Section 16(b) insider liability to attach.  While 3G purchased and sold CSX common stock, its own beneficial ownership standing alone never exceeded 10 percent of CSX outstanding stock.  Thus, Section 16(b) liability may only be imputed to 3G if (i) it is deemed to be a member of a group with TCI under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act so that its ownership combined with that of other members of the group exceeds the 10 percent threshold and (ii) TCIs equity swaps give rise to beneficial ownership of the Hedged Shares.  CSX and plaintiff contend that if those two conditions are established, 3Gs trading in CSX common stock within six-month periods during 2007 is matchable to yield disgorgable profits of approximately $9.6 million.
Thus, assuming plaintiff could prove the merits of her claims, the maximum recovery on her claims against both 3G and TCI under the current SEC rules governing determination of recoverable profits is alleged to be approximately $137.6 million.
 
4
 
The Defendants deny all allegations of any liability under Section 16(b) and any other assertions of wrongdoing or violations of law.  The Defendants have appealed from the Opinion in the 13D Action and have asked the Second Circuit to reverse and vacate the Opinion and, in particular, the findings that form the bases of plaintiffs theories of liability in this Action -- , that TCIs transactions in equity swaps gave rise to its beneficial ownership of the Hedged Shares and that defendants were members of a Section 13(d)(3) group.
i.e.
The parties recognize that CSX and plaintiffs theory of liability (that TCIs transactions in cash-settled equity swaps give rise to beneficial ownership of the Hedged Shares) is novel and that there is no prior case or rule directly on point.  If the Second Circuit reverses this finding in the 13D Action, there is no basis for liability in this Action against any of the defendants.  Moreover, if the Second Circuit reverses the finding that 3G was a member of a group along with TCI, there is no basis for liability against 3G because it did not beneficially own 10 percent of CSX common stock at any time.
The significant risks and uncertainties arising from the appeal in the 13D Action, and the possibility that a decision in that action is imminent, has prompted the parties to engage in settlement discussions in this Action on an expedited basis before defendants respond to the Complaint in this Action.  Following entry of an order preliminarily approving the proposed settlement of this Action, counsel for the Defendants and CSX will request that the Second Circuit withhold issuing its decision in the 13D Action until the date that the proposed settlement becomes final, within the meaning of  3 of the Settlement, or if the Settlement is not approved, upon entry of an order denying final approval of the Settlement.
 
5
 
CSX obtained substantial discovery in the 13D Action, which proceeded through a full trial on the merits.  Defendants transactions in CSX securities and in equity swaps are described in detail in the 115-page Opinion in the 13D Action.  In addition, counsel for CSXs disinterested directors (i.e., directors who have no financial interest in this litigation and are not affiliated with or nominated by the Defendants) and counsel for CSX engaged a financial expert to analyze and match all of the Defendants transactions in equity swaps and common stock in order to derive the maximum potential recoverable damages under the rules applicable to Section 16(b) claims.  This assumes both that CSX ultimately prevails in the 13D Action on its claims about defendants beneficial ownership and group status and that the Defendants do not prevail on any of their defenses in this Action to plaintiffs Section 16(b) claims, discussed below.
On December 2, 2008, CSX, its disinterested directors and plaintiff, entered into a cooperation agreement which provided for CSX to share its work product and damage analysis with plaintiffs counsel and which provided that plaintiffs counsel may seek an award of fees and expenses up to 5 percent of any settlement amount with a cap of $750,000.  Thereafter, counsel to CSX and its disinterested directors shared with plaintiffs counsel in this Action their damage analysis, the trading records of the Defendants, and the contracts governing TCIs equity swaps so that he could perform his own analysis of the potential damages.  In December 2008, settlement negotiations were conducted by counsel for plaintiff, the Defendants, CSX and CSXs disinterested directors, who are separately represented.
 
6
 
In agreeing to the Settlement, counsel for plaintiff, CSX and the CSX disinterested directors, weighed the risk of an unfavorable outcome if prosecution of this Action is continued; the fact that the claims involve novel legal issues of first impression and ones that are the subject of a hotly-contested appeal in the 13D Action in which numerous have filed briefs in support of and opposition to CSXs position; the fact that the SEC Division of Corporation Finance (the Division) sent a letter to the trial court in the 13D Action stating that [t]he Division believes that interpreting an investors beneficial ownership under Rule 13d-3 to include shares used in a counter-partys hedge, absent unusual circumstances, would be novel and would create significant uncertainties for investors who have used equity swaps in accordance with accepted market practices understood to be based on reasonably well-settled law; the fact that any ruling in this Action is likely to be appealed and that yet additional time would elapse before the final resolution of any such appeal; and counsel further weighed the risk of uncertainty inherent in the outcome of the appeal in the 13D Action, and the attendant costs, against the benefits and certainty of an immediate $11,000,000 cash settlement.  CSX, its disinterested directors, and plaintiff each has determined that the Settlement on the terms described herein is in the best interests of CSX and its shareholders.
amici
 
7
 
Counsel for plaintiff, CSX and its disinterested directors also weighed defenses that counsel for TCI stated it will raise to the claims in this Action, but which are unrelated to the arguments TCI has raised in its appeal in the 13D Action.  Among other things, TCI asserts that the alleged purchases and sales at issue are exempt from Section 16(b) liability pursuant to (1) Rule 16b-6(b)s exemption for converting derivative securities to direct ownership of the underlying security, (2) Section 16(e)s arbitrage exemption, (3) Rule 16a-13s exemption for changes in the form of beneficial ownership, and (4) the unorthodox transaction doctrine.  Those defenses are based on TCIs contention that the alleged purchases and sales at issue arose from transactions in which (a) TCI closed swap positions and acquired equivalent positions in CSX stock, and (b) TCI closed swap positions with certain counterparties and opened the same number of swap positions with other counterparties in order to reduce credit risk.  Because the offsetting purchases and sales took place on or about the same day, and because of CSXs adversity to TCI during the period in question, TCI could not have utilized inside information to speculate on any movement in the price of CSX stock.  In addition, TCI claims that the transactions at issue are exempt from Section 16(b) liability pursuant to Section 23(a) of the Exchange Act because TCI entered into those transactions based on its good faith reliance on, among other things, prior SEC guidance that cash-settled equity swaps did not confer beneficial ownership over the Hedge Shares.  Those defenses are discussed more fully in the brief in support of CSX and plaintiffs joint motion for final approval of the Settlement.  TCI further disputes the correctness of CSXs method of computing damages.  TCI contends that its defenses, if successful, could substantially reduce or eliminate the amount recoverable by CSX.
Kern County
The Settlement is not and shall not be construed or deemed to be evidence or an admission or concession on the part of the Defendants of any fault or liability whatsoever, and the Defendants do not concede any merit to plaintiffs theories or any infirmity in the defenses that they have raised in the 13D Action, or that they would assert in this Action if it was litigated to judgment.
 
8
 
The Terms of Settlement
Pursuant to the Settlement, the Defendants have agreed to pay to CSX the sum of $11,000,000.  In return this Action will be dismissed as against the Defendants on the merits and with prejudice.  In addition, if the Settlement is approved, the Court will enter a final Order and Judgment which provides for a dismissal of the Complaint and a release and bar order in the following form:
 
The Amended Complaint, each claim for relief therein against the Defendants and their Related Parties and all claims for violations of Section 16(b) that were asserted in this Action or could have been asserted in any amended complaint against the Defendants or their Related Parties, are hereby dismissed on the merits, with prejudice and without costs, except as otherwise provided in the award of an attorneys fee, costs and disbursements provided for herein; and the Defendants and their Related Parties are hereby discharged and released, except as noted in the final sentence hereof, from any and all liability and damages under or based upon any and all claims, rights, causes of action, suits, matters, demands, transactions and issues, known or unknown, arising out of or relating to the assertions contained in the Amended Complaint in this Action or that could have been asserted in this Action (i) by Plaintiff on behalf of herself or any other person or entity, (ii) by CSX and/or (iii) by any and all owners of any security (as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act) of CSX or any other security or instrument, the value of which is derived from the value of any CSX equity security, or any of them, whether individually, directly, representatively, derivatively or in any other capacity for all claims arising out of or relating to any violation of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under Section 16(b) relating to trading in CSX securities, equity swaps and/or other equity securities or instruments the value of which is derived from the value of any CSX equity security, from the beginning of time up through the date that this Settlement becomes Final under paragraph 3 of the Settlement.  Plaintiff and her counsel in this Action are enjoined from bringing any claims against the Defendants and their Related Parties for trading in CSX securities, including, without limitation, equity swaps or any other derivative security or instrument tied to the value of any CSX equity security arising from or relating to transactions in such securities or instruments, up through the date that this Settlement becomes Final under paragraph 3 of the Settlement, regardless of the theory of liability.  Nothing herein extends to or releases CSXs claims and the defendants defenses in the 13D Action.
 
 
9
 
 
Because the Action was brought derivatively on behalf of CSX, the Settlement Payments will be paid to CSX, net of any award by the Court of an attorneys fee and reimbursement of expenses to plaintiffs counsel.  There will be no distribution to shareholders.
If the Settlement is approved by the Court, all claims that were asserted or could have been asserted against the Defendants in the Action will be dismissed on the merits and with prejudice as to CSX and all of its shareholders and CSX and its shareholders and plaintiff and her counsel will be forever barred from prosecuting this Action or any other action raising any of the claims in this Action against the Defendants.
If the District Court does not approve the Settlement, or if the Order approving the Settlement is reversed on appeal, then the rights and duties of the respective parties to the terminated Settlement will revert to their respective statuses as of the date immediately prior to the execution of the Settlement.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT HEARING
The Court has ordered that a hearing be held before the Hon. Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, United States District Judge for the Southern District of New York, at the United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York, at 10:00 a.m., on March 5, 2009 (or at such other time and place as the Court hereafter may set, without further notice other than announcement thereof in open court at the above time and place) concerning: (i) the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy to CSX of the Settlement described above; and (ii) if the Settlement is approved, the application of plaintiffs counsel for an award of an attorneys fee and reimbursement of costs and expenses.
 
10
 
If you are the owner of a CSX security or any other security or instrument, the value of which is derived from the value of any CSX equity security, you may appear personally or by counsel and be heard at the Settlement Hearing;  and you may support, object to or express your views regarding the Settlement and/or plaintiffs application for an award of an attorneys fee and reimbursement of costs and expenses.  However, you will not be heard or entitled to contest the approval of the Settlement or plaintiffs application for an award of attorneys fees and reimbursement of costs and expenses unless, on or before March 2, 2009, you file a notice of intention to appear: (i) setting forth the dates you purchased and the number of shares of CSX common stock or security instrument, the value of which is derived from the value of CSX common stock, that you own as of the date hereof; and (ii) stating your objections, support or comments, in writing, with the Clerk of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York 10007, together with a list of any witnesses you intend to call, a list of any exhibits you intend to present and all briefs or other papers that support your objections or comments that you will submit to this Court at the Settlement Hearing.  On or before March 2, 2009, you must also serve, in person or by mail, the notice of intention to appear and attendant papers described in (i) and (ii) of this paragraph on Miranda Schiller, Weil, Gotshal & Manges, LLP, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153, Attorneys for CSX Disinterested Directors.
At the Settlement Fairness Hearing, or at such other time as the Court may direct, Plaintiffs counsel intends to apply to the Court for an award of attorneys fee and expenses in the amount of $550,000.  CSX, prior to the negotiation of the Settlement with the Defendants, agreed with Plaintiffs counsel to a formula for computing a fair and reasonable attorneys fee based on 5 percent of the recovery and will support such application.  This agreement is not binding on the Court.  Any amounts awarded would be paid from the Settlement Payment, after the Order approving the Settlement becomes final.
 
11
 
This Notice is not all-inclusive.  For the full details of the matters disclosed in the Notice, including the Stipulation of Settlement described above, and for further information concerning this Action, you may wish to refer to the pleadings or other papers filed with the Court in this Action, all of which may be inspected at the office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York during normal business hours.
For further information regarding this Notice, the Action or the proposed Settlement, CSX shareholders can contact, in writing, Plaintiffs counsel:
David Lopez, Esq.
171 Edge of Woods Road,  P.O. Box 323
Southampton, New York 11968
 12

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
 
 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced that a federal court in New York has issued an order preliminarily approving a settlement reached by all parties to a civil action brought by plaintiff, Deborah Donoghue, a shareholder of CSX, to recover so-called short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 alleged to have been realized by defendants The Childrens Investment Fund and 3G Capital Partners LP in connection with their purchases and sales of CSX securities.  CSX is party to the suit in name only, which was brought for the benefit of CSX.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (January 9, 2009) 
The parties filed the settlement with the court on December 16, 2008.  The court will hold a hearing on March 5, 2009 at 10 a.m. to determine whether to issue a final order approving the settlement and whether to award a fee to plaintiffs counsel.  If approved, CSX will receive $10 million from TCI and $1 million from 3G and the defendants and their related parties will be released from claims of violations of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act.  The settlement provides that counsel for the plaintiff will seek approval by the court for attorneys fees and costs of up to $550,000, which will be paid from the proceeds of the settlement payable to CSX.
 
Additional information regarding the settlement is contained in a Form 8-K report filed today by CSX with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and in the Form 8-K report filed by CSX on December 17, 2008 with the SEC. This announcement is available on the companys website at in the Investors section and on the Form 8-K report filed today with the SEC.
www.csx.com
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nations leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the companys web site, .
www.csx.com


