FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20090112175613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is information regarding the Company's press release of January 12, 2009 announcing preliminary fourth quarter 2008 financial information.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, has been "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 2.06. MATERIAL IMPAIRMENTS
In conjunction with the preparation of the Company's financial statements for 2008, the Company expects to include a noncash impairment charge of approximately 27 cents per share related to the write-down of its investment in The Greenbrier resort in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.
This Form 8-K contains estimates of the Company's preliminary fourth quarter financial information. The Company is continuing to review its financial and operating results and actual results may differ materially from those contained herein. Among the important factors that could cause results to vary from those contained herein are identification of additional assets that require an impairment charge be recorded. In addition, the preliminary fourth quarter financial information could vary from the above estimates based on the final accounting.
ITEM 9.01 EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced preliminary fourth quarter earnings per share of 63 cents. These results include a noncash impairment charge of approximately 27 cents per share related to the write-down of its investment in The Greenbrier resort in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. Excluding this charge and insurance gains of 1 cent in the prior year quarter, comparable earnings per share would be approximately 90 cents, which represents a 6% increase over the prior year quarter.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (Jan. 12, 2009) 
Overall revenues are expected to be approximately $2.7 billion for the quarter, up 4% from the prior year period. This was driven by higher yields and fuel recovery, which are expected to offset the impact of significantly lower volumes. Operating income, on a comparable basis, is estimated to increase 16 percent to $692 million, resulting in an operating ratio of approximately 74.1 percent.
"Our team's commitment helped CSX weather the difficult economic environment, which continues to impact our business," said Michael Ward, chairman, president and CEO.
The results in this press release are preliminary, and are subject to final closing of the financial statements and completion of the annual audit of the company's financial statements. CSX plans to issue its full fourth-quarter and fiscal 2008 financial and operating results after the market close on Tuesday, January 20, 2009. Given the current economic challenges, particularly the uncertainty facing U.S. manufacturing, the company is no longer affirming or providing long-term guidance.
Further information regarding the fourth quarter and full-year results will be available on the company's quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community scheduled for Wednesday, January 21, 2009.
Those interested in participating via teleconference may dial 1-888-327-6279 and ask for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S. may dial 1-773-756-0199.) Participants should dial in no later than 10 minutes prior to the call. Presentation materials and access to the live webcast will be available at in the Investors section.
www.csx.com
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," "preliminary" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at .
www.csx.com


