FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20090713163710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On July 13, 2009, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the second quarter ended June 26, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  July 13, 2009
 
 
 

                                                                                                 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:
 
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Garrick Francis, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights:
 Earnings per share at 78 cents; 72 cents from continuing operations
 
 Productivity and cost cutting efforts continue
 
 Operating income at $582 million and operating ratio at 73.4%
 
 Safety levels strong, contributing to favorable casualty reserve adjustment
 
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced second quarter earnings of $308 million, or 78 cents a share, versus $385 million, or 93 cents a share, last year. Excluding the impact of discontinued operations related to The Greenbrier resort, earnings per share from continuing operations declined 24 percent from 95 cents to 72 cents.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (July 13, 2009) 
Second quarter revenues of $2.2 billion were down 25 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 21 percent decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge recovery. Volumes continued to decline across the board, although the rate of decline in the coal market accelerated in the second quarter.
While the economy continues to significantly impact our business, there are some signs that we may be seeing the bottom in many markets, said Michael Ward, president, chairman and CEO.  Even in this difficult business environment, we are still strengthening our operations, optimizing our resources and making the right investments to prepare our network for the future.
CSX continued to improve its safety performance, contributing to a further reduction in its casualty reserves of $70 million compared to last year. Combined with the companys cost management efforts and increased network efficiency, operating expenses declined 27%, allowing the company to produce operating income of $582 million and an operating ratio of 73.4 percent for the quarter.
By improving safety, reducing costs and increasing productivity we lessened the impact of the struggling global economy on our business, said Tony Ingram, executive vice president and chief operating officer. We remained aggressive in right-sizing our train network while still providing reliable service for our customers.
                                       
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 14, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights:
 Earnings per share at 78 cents; 72 cents from continuing operations
 
 Productivity and cost cutting efforts continue
 
 Operating income at $582 million and operating ratio at 73.4%
 
 Safety levels strong, contributing to favorable casualty reserve adjustment
 
CSX Corporation [NYSE: CSX] today announced second quarter earnings of $308 million, or 78 cents a share, versus $385 million, or 93 cents a share, last year. Excluding the impact of discontinued operations related to The Greenbrier resort, earnings per share from continuing operations declined 24 percent from 95 cents to 72 cents.
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (July 13, 2009) 
Second quarter revenues of $2.2 billion were down 25 percent from the prior year, primarily due to a 21 percent decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge recovery. Volumes continued to decline across the board, although the rate of decline in the coal market accelerated in the second quarter.
While the economy continues to significantly impact our business, there are some signs that we may be seeing the bottom in many markets, said Michael Ward, president, chairman and CEO.  Even in this difficult business environment, we are still strengthening our operations, optimizing our resources and making the right investments to prepare our network for the future.
CSX continued to improve its safety performance, contributing to a further reduction in its casualty reserves of $70 million compared to last year. Combined with the companys cost management efforts and increased network efficiency, operating expenses declined 27%, allowing the company to produce operating income of $582 million and an operating ratio of 73.4 percent for the quarter.
By improving safety, reducing costs and increasing productivity we lessened the impact of the struggling global economy on our business, said Tony Ingram, executive vice president and chief operating officer. We remained aggressive in right-sizing our train network while still providing reliable service for our customers.
 
1
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 14, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the companys website at . Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; and (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
(a) : In the second quarter of 2008, CSX recognized a tax benefit of $18 million, or $0.04 per share, principally related to the settlement of federal income tax audits and certain other tax matters.
Income Tax Expense
(b) : In May 2009, CSX sold the Companys resort, The Greenbrier, and recognized a gain of $25 million after tax Previously, all amounts associated with the operations of The Greenbrier were included in Other Income.  Because of the sale, The Greenbriers results of operations and the second quarter 2009 gain will be reported as Discontinued Operations in the Companys Consolidated Income Statements.  All prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this change.
Discontinued Operations
(also included in the second quarter amount is $2 million of losses from operations). 
Note: In May 2009, CSX sold the stock of The Greenbrier Hotel Corporation, owner of The Greenbrier resort. The results of The Greenbriers operations are presented in discontinued operations on the consolidated income statements and all prior periods have been reclassified.
 
6
 
 
7
 
Certain data within Merchandise categories have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
8
 
CSX experienced significant year-over-year volume and revenue declines caused by the broad-based weakness in the economy. The greatest impacts were felt in coal, automotive, construction and consumer-related markets.  Lower fuel recovery associated with the sharp decline in fuel prices more than offset the Companys ongoing yield management initiatives.
Rail
Merchandise
 Continued weakness in the housing, automotive and consumer goods markets has significantly reduced demand for chemical products related to those markets.
Chemicals
 Aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) volume declined due to continued softness in residential construction.
Emerging Markets
 A weak housing market has driven the continued decline in lumber and building products. Paper volume continued to be soft due to electronic media substitution and less packaging being used as a result of lower consumer spending.
Forest Products
Agricultural Products
Volume was down slightly as the continuing growth in ethanol was more than offset by lower consumption of poultry and fewer east coast grain exports due to a stronger global supply.
 
Metals
Volume declines were driven by weak global and domestic steel demand in the automotive and construction industries. This weak demand caused steel producers to continue idling capacity in an attempt to balance supply with demand.
 Phosphate production was down due to weak international and domestic demand.  Additionally, farmers are continuing to cut back on levels of phosphate and potash application in reaction to lower commodity prices.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Weakness in residential construction caused reduced shipments of appliances and other consumer goods.  Yet, basic needs markets such as food products were less severely impacted by the current economic conditions.
Food and Consumer
Coal
 
Volume declines were driven by a weaker export market and lower demand from electric utilities.  The export market decline is a result of both lower steel production in Europe reducing the need for metallurgical coal (coal used to produce steel), and cheaper alternative global sources for European utilities.  The demand for domestic electrical generation from coal was down because of low natural gas prices and lower industrial production.
Automotive
Revenue and volume were down as lower consumer demands, inventory corrections, and bankruptcy filings within the auto industry reduced new car production.
Intermodal
 Volume continues to be down significantly on weak imports and exports due to the global economic recession. Revenue-per-unit was lower on significantly decreased fuel recovery, partially offset by long-term contract price increases.
International
 Volume was up slightly as truckload conversion and expanded service offerings helped offset the decline in other segments of the domestic market.  Revenue-per-unit was lower on decreased fuel recovery and a competitive truck pricing environment.
Domestic
 
9
 
Expenses decreased $587 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense decreased $79 million. This decrease was primarily driven by labor productivity initiatives, such as employee furloughs and reduced crew overtime, and lower incentive compensation.  These decreases were partially offset by inflation.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $145 million due to several items including a year over year change in casualty reserves of $70 million. As safety trends have continued to improve, benefits were taken in both years second quarters - $85 million in 2009 and $15 million in the prior year quarter.  These benefits were a result of the continuing downward trend in the number and the severity of injuries.  Additionally, there were volume-related expense decreases, prior year proxy-related items (not repeated in the current year) and other items.
Materials, Supplies and Other
Casualty reserves are reviewed by management and an outside party twice a year.
expense decreased $352 million due to lower fuel prices and lower volume.
Fuel
 
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
               
         
NOTE: Employee counts for The Greenbrier are no longer included due to the sale.
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 


