FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20100701135701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On June 29, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CSX Corporation ("CSX") appointed Pamela L. Carter to serve as a member of the Board. Her appointment increases the size of the Board from eleven directors to twelve. Ms Carter, 60, is currently President of Cummins Distribution, a $1.8 billion division of Cummins Inc. Ms. Carter was appointed to serve on the Governance and Operations and Public Affairs Committees of the Board. The Board determined that Ms. Carter qualifies as independent under the director independence standards set forth in the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Ms. Carter will receive compensation consistent with that provided to all non-employee directors, as described in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 24, 2010.
     A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Carter's appointment as a member of the Board is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1.
     (d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Pamela L. Carter Elected to CSX Corporation Board of Directors
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., June 30, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ 
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced that Pamela L. Carter has been appointed to the company's board of directors, effective June 29, 2010. Carter will serve on the company's Governance Committee and Operations and Public Affairs Committee.
Carter is President of Cummins Distribution, a $1.8 billion division of Cummins Inc., a position she has held since 2008. She joined Cummins in 1997 and has held a variety of leadership positions in the company.
Prior to her career with Cummins, Carter served in several capacities with the State of Indiana. She was the first African-American woman elected to the office of Attorney General in any state. She also served as Parliamentarian of the Indiana House of Representatives, Deputy Chief-of-Staff to Governor Evan Bayh, Executive Assistant for Health Policy and Human Services and Security Enforcement Attorney for the Office of the Secretary of State.
Carter currently serves on the board of directors of Spectra Energy Corporation.
"Pamela Carter brings strong operational experience and insight into regulatory and public policy matters," said Michael J. Ward, CSX chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We are honored that she has agreed to serve as a director and to help lead the continued growth and success of our company."
Carter's appointment increases the size of the CSX board from 11 members to 12.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's web site, .
www.csx.com
SOURCE CSX Corporation


