FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20100119160522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On January 19, 2010, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the year and quarter ended December 25, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  January 19, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
 
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
Highlights:
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations of $305 million, or 77 cents a share, versus $361 million, or 92 cents a share, in the same period last year.
Jacksonville, Fla.  January 19, 2010 
Fourth quarter revenue of $2.3 billion was 13 percent down from the prior year. This was driven by a 7 percent overall decline in volume as growth in the intermodal and automotive sectors was more than offset by declines in coal and merchandise. In addition, lower fuel prices led to decreased fuel surcharge recovery. Despite these factors, core pricing remained strong, reflecting high service levels and the overall value of freight rail transportation.
Total operating expense for the quarter was $1.7 billion, down 12 percent from the prior year.  These savings, driven primarily by strong safety, service and productivity, contributed to operating income of $583 million for the quarter.
The economy continued to show modest, sequential improvement in the quarter, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  CSX worked aggressively on gaining operating leverage and further strengthening the fundamentals of our business for the future.
CSX also announced full year 2009 earnings from continuing operations of $1.14 billion, or $2.87 a share, versus $1.5 billion, or $366 a share, for 2008.  
.
The company continued to improve its network efficiency and safety in 2009, while reducing full-year operating costs by 20 percent compared to 2008. As a result, CSX posted a record annual operating ratio of 74.7 percent.
In 2009, CSX put forth a decisive and effective response to the challenging economy while simultaneously building for the future, said Ward.  Our performance is a clear demonstration of the resolve of our organization and the talents of our people.
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 20, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international
economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; and (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights:
CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations of $305 million, or 77 cents a share, versus $361 million, or 92 cents a share, in the same period last year.
Jacksonville, Fla.  January 19, 2010
Fourth quarter revenue of $2.3 billion was 13 percent down from the prior year. This was driven by a 7 percent overall decline in volume as growth in the intermodal and automotive sectors was more than offset by declines in coal and merchandise. In addition, lower fuel prices led to decreased fuel surcharge recovery. Despite these factors, core pricing remained strong, reflecting high service levels and the overall value of freight rail transportation.
Total operating expense for the quarter was $1.7 billion, down 12 percent from the prior year.  These savings, driven primarily by strong safety, service and productivity, contributed to operating income of $583 million for the quarter.
The economy continued to show modest, sequential improvement in the quarter, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  CSX worked aggressively on gaining operating leverage and further strengthening the fundamentals of our business for the future.
CSX also announced full year 2009 earnings from continuing operations of $1.14 billion, or $2.87 a share, versus $1.5 billion, or $3.66 a share, for 2008.
The company continued to improve its network efficiency and safety in 2009, while reducing full-year operating costs by 20 percent compared to 2008. As a result, CSX posted a record annual operating ratio of 74.7 percent.
In 2009, CSX put forth a decisive and effective response to the challenging economy while simultaneously building for the future, said Ward.  Our performance is a clear demonstration of the resolve of our organization and the talents of our people.
 
1
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 20, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operation, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new products and services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic or business conditions, including those affecting the rail industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; and (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at www.csx.com.
 
2
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
(a) Property additions, which are classified as investing activities on the consolidated cash flow statements, consisted of $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion for years ended 2009 and 2008, respectively.  In addition, capital expenditures for 2009 include purchases of new assets using seller financing, approximately $160 million, which are included in other financing activities on the consolidated cash flow statements.  There were $54 million in purchases of new assets under seller financing agreements during 2008.
 
5
 
The Company derives income from items that are not considered operating activities.  Income from these items is reported net of related expense.  Miscellaneous income (expense) includes equity earnings or losses, investment gains and losses, and other non-operating activities, which can be income or expense.  Other income  net consisted of the following:
6
 
7
 
Certain data within Merchandise categories have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
8
 
CSX experienced another quarter of volume and revenue decline caused by the weak economy.   The greatest volume declines occurred in coal, construction and consumer-related markets.  However, the overall rate of year-over-year volume decline continued to moderate with the slight improvement in the economy.  Lower fuel recovery associated with the sharp decline in fuel prices more than offset the Companys ongoing yield management initiatives.
 
 
Rail
Merchandise
The merchandise business is the most diverse market and includes aggregates, metal, phosphate, fertilizer, food, consumer, agricultural, paper and chemical products.  Continued weakness in the construction and consumer goods markets has significantly reduced demand for most merchandise markets.  Additional information on other drivers is provided below.
- - Volume was up slightly with continuing growth in ethanol and exports mostly offset by lower poultry production which negatively impacted the feed grain and ingredient markets.
Agricultural Products
 Volume was up due to strong demand for both export and domestic phosphate shipments as low inventories are replenished.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
Coal
Volume declines were driven by lower demand from electric utilities and a weaker export market.  Domestic coal demand for generating electricity was down due to natural gas substitution and lower industrial production, resulting in continued high stockpile levels.  As a result, utility coal demand is expected to remain weak well into 2010.  The export market decline was a result of both lower steel production in Europe reducing the need for metallurgical coal (coal used to produce steel) and less expensive alternative global sources for European utilities.
Automotive
Volume
increased due to a slight improvement in auto sales and the need for manufacturers to replenish inventories depleted by the Cash for Clunkers program.  Revenue per unit was negatively impacted by lower fuel recovery associated with the sharp decline in fuel prices.
Intermodal
 Volume continues to be down due to both weak imports and exports, however weakness in global trade is beginning to ease. Volume improved sequentially due to new service offerings and a slight fall peak in shipping in advance of the holiday season. Revenue-per-unit was lower due to decreased fuel recovery, partially offset by contract price increases.
International
 Volume increased as continued truckload conversions, expanded service offerings and a slight fall peak in shipping in advance of the holiday season offset the decline in other market segments.  Revenue-per-unit was lower due to decreased fuel recovery and a continued competitive truck pricing environment.
Domestic
 
9
 
Expenses decreased $245 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense decreased $63 million.  This decrease was primarily driven by labor expense reductions, such as employee furloughs (temporary layoffs) and reduced crew overtime.  These decreases were partially offset by inflation and other items.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $105 million.  This decrease was driven by the current year decline in volume-related expenses and a decrease in a number of occupational injury claims, which primarily drove a net favorable adjustment to casualty reserves.  Casualty reserves are reviewed by management and an independent expert during the second and fourth quarter of each year.  Also, bad debt expense decreased due to improved collection and a stabilizing economic environment.  Various other costs also decreased, such as ongoing benefits from the casualty reserve adjustments and other items from last year that were not repeated in this quarter.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense decreased $81 million primarily due to lower volume, lower prices, and increased efficiency in locomotive fuel use.
Fuel
 
expense decreased $1 million due to lower depreciation rates resulting from a periodic review of asset useful lives partially offset by a larger asset base related to higher capital spending.
Depreciation
expense decreased $8 million primarily due to cost savings associated with improved asset utilization and lower volume.
Equipment and Other Rents
expense increased $13 million primarily due to higher foreign linehaul traffic.
Inland Transportation
 
10
 
 
11
 


