FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20100712160550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On July 12, 2010, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended June 25, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  July 12, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced second quarter earnings from continuing operations of $414 million, or $1.07 per share, versus $282 million, or $0.71 per share, in the same period last year.  This represents a 51 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share from continuing operations.
Jacksonville, Fla.  July 12, 2010
While the economy remains dynamic, our markets overall continue to improve, and our outlook remains positive, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  At the same time, CSX has demonstrated that it can be successful in a wide array of economic conditions, and thats what we will continue to do.
Revenue in the second quarter increased 22 percent from the prior year to nearly $2.7 billion, with volume gains across all major markets.  Revenue growth and continued operating leverage drove all-time record financial results, including operating income of $768 million and an operating ratio of 71.2 percent.
CSX employees remained focused on creating value for our customers to help them compete in todays economy, Ward said.  As a result, we delivered another strong quarter of financial results for our shareholders while continuing to make high levels of investment in the nations freight rail system.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 13, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at .  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimat e, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any  forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii)  the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at .
www.csx.com
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced second quarter earnings from continuing operations of $414 million, or $1.07 per share, versus $282 million, or $0.71 per share, in the same period last year.  This represents a 51 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share from continuing operations.
Jacksonville, Fla.  July 12, 2010
While the economy remains dynamic, our markets overall continue to improve, and our outlook remains positive, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  At the same time, CSX has demonstrated that it can be successful in a wide array of economic conditions, and thats what we will continue to do.
Revenue in the second quarter increased 22 percent from the prior year to nearly $2.7 billion, with volume gains across all major markets.  Revenue growth and continued operating leverage drove all-time record financial results, including operating income of $768 million and an operating ratio of 71.2 percent.
CSX employees remained focused on creating value for our customers to help them compete in todays economy, Ward said.  As a result, we delivered another strong quarter of financial results for our shareholders while continuing to make high levels of investment in the nations freight rail system.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services.  The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
 
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
 
1
 
 
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 13, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com.  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimat e, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at www.csx.com.
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
Note regarding reclassifications: Automotive has moved to the Merchandise category. Coal and Intermodal have been stated as single totals, respectively (combined previously reported sub-categories) and Other revenue related to Rail and Intermodal has been combined into one Other line.  All prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes.
 
7
 
CSX second quarter results reflect strong year-over-year volume and revenue growth as compared to the level of economic activity last year.  The greatest volume increases occurred in the automotive, metals and intermodal markets.  Ongoing yield management initiatives and higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in nearly all markets.
Merchandise
 Growth occurred across most chemical markets reflecting the overall improvement in demand for intermediate products used in the automotive and consumer goods markets.
Chemicals
 This market's growth was driven by increased export and domestic phosphate shipments as well as domestic movements of potash to meet the demand from a robust planting season.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Strong growth was due to an increase in North American light vehicle production driven by higher sales and lower inventory levels.
Automotive
 Shipments of aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) increased from depressed levels last year and due to new business for the Company.
Emerging Markets
 Volume was relatively flat.  Increased shipments of ethanol were mostly offset by weaker demand for feed ingredients, soybeans and other processed products.
Agricultural Products
 Growth in building products increased from the depressed levels of 2009, due in part to tax incentives offered for new home purchases that ended during the quarter. Paper products continued to see long-term, gradual volume declines likely resulting from electronic media substitution.
Forest Products
 Growth was driven by rebounding steel consumption consistent with the gradual economic recovery.  Improved demand from automotive and energy markets, combined with low inventories and reduced imports pushed domestic steel production higher.
Metals
 Volume was flat as increased shipments of refrigerated products and canned goods were offset by weakness in demand for appliances and alcoholic beverages.
Food and Consumer
Coal
Growth was driven by higher export shipments due to greater Asian demand for U.S. metallurgical coal, partially offset by lower shipments to utility customers as a result of continued high stockpile levels.  The increase in revenue per unit was driven by improved yield and longer length of haul.
Intermodal
Revenue gains during the quarter were driven by volume growth. International volume increased due to new business and higher imports as a result of U.S. inventory replenishments. Domestic volume continued to grow with truckload conversions and expanded service offerings like the new UMAX program, which began this quarter. The revenue-per-unit decline was driven by the impact of switching from a purchased transportation arrangement to the new UMAX domestic interline program and was partly offset by increased fuel recovery and an improved pricing environment.
 
8
 
Expenses increased $287 million from last years second quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $67 million.  This increase was primarily driven by inflation and higher incentive compensation costs and a 1% increase in headcount.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense increased $107 million due to several items:
Materials, Supplies and Other
 
 
 
expense increased $119 million primarily due to higher prices and higher volume.
Fuel
 
expense increased $3 million due to a larger asset base related to higher capital spending, partially offset by lower depreciation rates resulting from the previous periodic review of asset useful lives.
Depreciation
expense decreased $9 million primarily due to current quarters cost savings associated with improved asset utilization and lower lease expense, partially offset by volume-related increases.
Equipment and Other Rents
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Beginning in second quarter 2010, Rail, Intermodal, and Technology, Corporate, and Other are no longer shown separately.
The table above shows total CSX employee counts.
 
9
 
*
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.
 
10
 
Effective in the second quarter of 2010, CSX changed the accounting policy for rail grinding costs from a capitalization method, under which the cost of rail grinding was capitalized and then depreciated, to a direct expense method, under which rail grinding costs are expensed as incurred.  This represents a change from an acceptable method under generally accepted accounting principles to a preferable method, and is consistent with recent changes in industry practice.  The effects of this change are not material to the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity for any of periods presented.  All previous periods have been adjusted to reflect this change.  For further details, see CSXs Second Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is required to be filed by August 4, 2010.
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 


