FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20101029083231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On Friday, October 29, 2010, Michael J. Ward, Chairman, President and CEO of CSX Corporation, announced to employees the companys goal of achieving a 65 percent full-year operating ratio by no later than 2015. In this announcement, Mr. Ward stated the following:  Were calling the effort Grow to 65.. . .  As the economy improves, we are convinced that if we continue to serve our customers better, remain focused on safety and productivity, and continue to make smart, strategic investments in our network to capture growth opportunities, the next twenty years for CSXand U.S. railroadingcan be about jobs and growth.
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, antic ipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at .
www.csx.com
 
1
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 


