FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20101012160723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 12, 2010, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 24, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 12, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced third quarter earnings of $414 million, or $1.08 per share, versus $290 million, or $0.73 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 48 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a third quarter record for the company.
Jacksonville, Fla.  October 12, 2010
Third quarter revenue increased 16 percent from the prior year to nearly $2.7 billion on a 10 percent overall increase in volume. Revenue growth and continued operating leverage drove a 39 percent increase in operating income to $825 million, and a 490 basis point improvement in the operating ratio to 69.1 percent.
 
 
As the economy continued to improve, CSX saw volume growth in nearly all markets while delivering another strong performance in safety, service and productivity, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  These positive financial results are enabling the company to increase investments that create competitive advantages for customers, grow the business, create jobs and deliver shareholder value.
Accordingly, the company today announced plans to raise its 2010 capital investment to approximately $1.8 billion, up from the previously announced $1.7 billion.  In addition, and consistent with its balanced approach to capital deployment, CSX said it expects to repurchase an additional $646 million in shares by the end of the first quarter of 2011, representing the remainder of its existing $3 billion share repurchase program.  These actions build on the companys September 29 announcement to increase its dividend for the eighth time in five years.
 
 
 
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 13, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be
accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at
http://investors.csx.com
.
  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, antic ipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at .
www.csx.com
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced third quarter earnings of $414 million, or $1.08 per share, versus $290 million, or $0.73 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 48 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a third quarter record for the company.
Jacksonville, Fla.  October 12, 2010
Third quarter revenue increased 16 percent from the prior year to nearly $2.7 billion on a 10 percent overall increase in volume. Revenue growth and continued operating leverage drove a 39 percent increase in operating income to $825 million, and a 490 basis point improvement in the operating ratio to 69.1 percent.
As the economy continued to improve, CSX saw volume growth in nearly all markets while delivering another strong performance in safety, service and productivity, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  These positive financial results are enabling the company to increase investments that create competitive advantages for customers, grow the business, create jobs and deliver shareholder value.
Accordingly, the company today announced plans to raise its 2010 capital investment to approximately $1.8 billion, up from the previously announced $1.7 billion.  In addition, and consistent with its balanced approach to capital deployment, CSX said it expects to repurchase an additional $646 million in shares by the end of the first quarter of 2011, representing the remainder of its existing $3 billion share repurchase program.  These actions build on the companys September 29 announcement to increase its dividend for the eighth time in five years.
 
1
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 13, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com.  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, antic ipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and the companys website at www.csx.com.
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
(a) The revenue-per-unit decline was primarily driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior interline agreement.  See the explanation for intermodal variances for further information.
 
7
 
CSX third quarter results reflect continued strong year-over-year volume and revenue growth as a result of the improving marketplace and in comparison to the level of economic activity last year.  The greatest volume increases occurred in the automotive and intermodal markets.  Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation and yield management, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in nearly all markets.
Merchandise
 Growth occurred across most markets reflecting improvement in demand for intermediate products used in manufacturing automobiles and consumer goods.
Chemicals
 Volume was relatively flat as strength in domestic shipments, due to a strong planting season, was mostly offset by a slight moderation in export volume.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Strong growth was due to an increase in North American light vehicle production driven by higher sales.
Automotive
 Shipments of aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) were flat, however volume growth was primarily driven by new shipments of limestone and cement.
Emerging Markets
 Volume grew with increased shipments of feed, wheat and ethanol.  Domestic shipments of feed and wheat increased due to reduced imports as a result of a worldwide shortage of wheat. Ethanol shipments grew as the amount of ethanol in fuel continued to increase.
Agricultural Products
 Volume was flat due to continued weakness in construction and paper-related markets.
Forest Products
 Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of sheet steel for auto production and by increases in pipe shipments for energy-related uses.
Metals
 Volume was flat as increased shipments of refrigerated products and alcoholic beverages were offset by weakness in demand for appliances.
Food and Consumer
Coal
Growth was driven by higher export shipments due to greater demand for U.S. metallurgical coal, partially offset by lower shipments to utility customers as stockpiles continued to moderate to more normal levels.  The increase in revenue per unit was driven by improved yield and longer length of haul.
Intermodal
Revenue gains during the quarter were driven by volume growth.  International volume increased due to new business, U.S. inventory replenishments, and early holiday shipping.  Domestic volume continued to grow with truckload conversions and expanded transcontinental service offerings.  The revenue-per-unit decline was driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior interline agreement and was partly offset by increased fuel recovery and an improved pricing environment.
Other
Revenue gains were primarily driven by benefits for contract volume commitments not met as well as increases in intermodal container usage charges.
 
8
 
CSX Corporation
EXPENSE
Expenses increased $146 million from last years third quarter. Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $78 million. This increase was primarily driven by inflation, higher incentive compensation, and hiring and other costs.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense increased $9 million due to several items:
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $56 million primarily due to higher prices as well as higher volume.
Fuel
 
expense increased $5 million due to a larger asset base related to higher capital spending, partially offset by lower depreciation rates resulting from the previous periodic review of asset useful lives.
Depreciation
expense decreased $2 million primarily due to current quarters cost savings associated with improved asset utilization and lower lease expense, partially offset by volume-related increases.
Equipment and Other Rents
 
9
 
                        (a)
Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.
 
10
 
Effective in the second quarter of 2010, CSX changed the accounting policy for rail grinding costs from a capitalization method, under which the cost of rail grinding was capitalized and then depreciated, to a direct expense method, under which rail grinding costs are expensed as incurred. This represents a change from an acceptable method under generally accepted accounting principles to a preferable method, and is consistent with recent changes in industry practice. The effects of this change are not material to the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity for any of the periods presented. All previous periods have been adjusted to reflect this change. For further details, see CSXs Third Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is required to be filed by November 3, 2010.
 
11
 
 
12
 


