FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20100413160531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On April 13, 2010, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 26, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 13, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1                    
 
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced first quarter earnings per share from continuing operations of $306 million, or 78 cents per share, versus $254 million, or 64 cents per share, in the same period last year.  This represents a 22 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share from continuing operations.
Jacksonville, Fla.  April 13, 2010
CSX drove strong efficiencies in its operations and produced outstanding results as the economy continued to recover, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  We are particularly proud of our excellent safety performance in the quarter, as our employees achieved record results in one of Americas safest industries.
Revenue in the first quarter increased 11 percent from the prior year, to nearly $2.5 billion, with gains across most of the companys markets.  The combination of higher revenues and productivity also resulted in a record first quarter operating ratio of 74.5 percent and record first quarter operating income of $634 million.  
Our focus on safety, service and productivity has positioned CSX to produce strong results as the recovery continues, Ward said.  These results will enable the company to continue investing in its business to support the nations growing demand for freight transportation, while driving shareholder value.  
CSX has invested approximately $5 billion in its network over the past three years, and is investing another $1.7 billion in 2010.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on April 14, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimat e, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 

Exhibit 99.2       
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced first quarter earnings per share from continuing operations of $306 million, or 78 cents per share, versus $254 million, or 64 cents per share, in the same period last year.  This represents a 22 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share from continuing operations.
Jacksonville, Fla.  April 13, 2010
CSX drove strong efficiencies in its operations and produced outstanding results as the economy continued to recover, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  We are particularly proud of our excellent safety performance in the quarter, as our employees achieved record results in one of Americas safest industries.
Revenue in the first quarter increased 11 percent from the prior year, to nearly $2.5 billion, with gains across most of the companys markets.  The combination of higher revenues and productivity also resulted in a record first quarter operating ratio of 74.5 percent and record first quarter operating income of $634 million.
Our focus on safety, service and productivity has positioned CSX to produce strong results as the recovery continues, Ward said.  These results will enable the company to continue investing in its business to support the nations growing demand for freight transportation, while driving shareholder value.
CSX has invested approximately $5 billion in its network over the past three years, and is investing another $1.7 billion in 2010.
 
1
 
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com in the Investors section and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on April 14, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. ET. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, or other financial items; statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; statements concerning proposed new services; and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimat e, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting full year 2010 economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at www.csx.com.
www.sec.gov
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
CSX Corporation
REVENUE
CSX first quarter results reflect strong year-over-year volume and revenue growth as a result of the gradual and steady growth in the economy as compared to the level of economic activity last year.  The greatest volume increases occurred in the automotive, phosphates, metals, and intermodal markets.  Ongoing yield management initiatives and higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in most markets.  These gains more than offset continued weakness in utility coal and construction related markets.
 
Rail
Merchandise
 Volume growth was primarily driven by increased shipments of plastics due to the improvement in demand from the automotive and consumer goods markets, and by growth in shipments of fractionating sand used in natural gas drilling.
Chemicals
 Volume weakness in building products, appliances, aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) was due to the continued softness in residential construction.
Emerging Markets, Forest Products, and Food and Consumer
- Volume growth was due to increased shipments of feed ingredients to export markets, driven by greater global demand for meat products.  In addition, domestic volume increased as a result of continued growth in the ethanol market.
Agricultural Products
 Strong volume growth was driven by rebounding steel consumption consistent with the ongoing economic recovery.  Improving demand from automotive and energy markets, combined with low inventories pushed domestic steel production higher.
Metals
 Significant volume growth occurred in the quarter with increased production to meet both export and domestic demand as buyers rebuilt inventories of fertilizer in anticipation of the spring planting season.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
Coal
Revenue and volume declines were driven by lower shipments to utility customers as a result of continued high stockpile levels.  This decline was partially offset by growth in the export market due to greater Chinese demand for U.S. metallurgical coal.  The increase in revenue per unit was driven by improved yield, longer length of haul, and higher fuel recovery.
Automotive
Strong volume and revenue growth was due to a significant increase in North American light vehicle production driven by an increase in automotive sales.
Intermodal
 Volume growth was driven by continued strength in truckload conversions and expanded service offerings. Revenue per unit was higher due to increased fuel recovery and a modestly improved competitive truck pricing environment.
Domestic
 Volume increased as U.S. inventory replenishments and improving U.S. exports drove significant growth compared to depressed prior year volume.  Revenue per unit was higher due to increased fuel recovery and contract price increases.
International
 
8
 
CSX Corporation
Expenses increased $132 million from last years quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $67 million.  This increase was driven by higher incentive compensation, inflation, and several other items.  These increases were partially offset by lower staffing levels.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $24 million.  This decrease was primarily driven by insurance and legal recoveries in addition to ongoing benefits from safety improvements.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $92 million primarily due to higher prices.
Fuel
 
expense increased $5 million due to a larger asset base related to higher capital spending, partially offset by lower depreciation rates resulting from the previous periodic review of asset useful lives.
Depreciation
expense decreased $13 million primarily due to current quarters cost savings associated with improved asset utilization and higher prior year settlement expenses with other railroads. These decreases were partially offset by increased rents due to higher volume.
Equipment and Other Rents
expense increased $5 million primarily due to higher foreign linehaul traffic from increased intermodal volumes.
Inland Transportation
OTHER INCOME  NET
(Unaudited)
The Company derives income from items that are not considered operating activities.  Income from these items is reported net of related expense.  Miscellaneous income (expense) includes equity earnings or losses, investment gains and losses, and other non-operating activities, which can be income or expense.  Other income  net consisted of the following:
 
9
 
 
10
 
CSX Rail Network
 
 
11
 
 
 


