FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20110124160038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On January 24, 2011, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  January 24, 2011

 
                                                                                                      Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
Fourth Quarter Highlights:
Full Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter earnings of $430 million, or $1.14 per share, versus $303 million, or $0.77 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 48 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a record fourth quarter for the company.
Jacksonville, Fla.  January 24, 2011
Fourth quarter revenue grew to $2.8 billion, a 21 percent increase from the prior year, on a 13 percent increase in volume. The fourth quarter of 2010 included an extra week resulting from the companys 52/53 week fiscal reporting calendar.  Excluding the extra week, revenue increased 14 percent and volume increased seven percent on a comparable basis.
Continued revenue growth, along with productivity and operating leverage, drove a 46 percent increase in operating income to $846 million, and a 500 basis point improvement in the operating ratio to 70.0 percent for the quarter.
 
 
With growth across nearly all the markets we serve and continued strong performance in our operations, we are driving outstanding value for our customers and shareholders, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Full-year Results
CSX continued its excellent safety performance in 2010 and achieved a 17 percent reduction in its FRA personal injury rate to 1.00, an all-time record for the full year.
The company also delivered record financial results for the full year. Earnings were $1.56 billion, or $4.06 a share, versus $1.14 billion, or $2.89 a share, for 2009. These results were driven by strengthening volume, revenue, productivity and operating leverage, which also led to a record annual operating ratio of 71.1 percent.
CSX continued to apply its balanced approach to deploying capital for shareholders in 2010. The company invested $1.8 billion in its business, increased its dividend twice, repurchased $1.5 billion of its shares, and expects to repurchase approximately $300 million of its shares in the first quarter of this year, completing its current $3 billion share repurchase program.
2011 Expectations
CSX expects to produce record financial results, including a high-60s operating ratio in 2011.  This progress is consistent with the Companys previously announced goal of achieving a 65 percent operating ratio no later than 2015. In addition, the company plans to invest $2 billion in its business during 2011, with approximately two-thirds of that investment in the companys infrastructure and rolling stock, and the remaining split between strategic and regulatory investments.
This investment will further strengthen our companys transportation network, enhance our ability to reliably serve Americas freight transportation needs, and create shareholder value in the near- and long-term, said Ward.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 25, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at .  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items,statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights:
Full Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter earnings of $430 million, or $1.14 per share, versus $303 million, or $0.77 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 48 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a record fourth quarter for the company.
Jacksonville, Fla.  January 24, 2011
Fourth quarter revenue grew to $2.8 billion, a 21 percent increase from the prior year, on a 13 percent increase in volume. The fourth quarter of 2010 included an extra week resulting from the companys 52/53 week fiscal reporting calendar.  Excluding the extra week, revenue increased 14 percent and volume increased seven percent on a comparable basis.
Continued revenue growth, along with productivity and operating leverage, drove a 46 percent increase in operating income to $846 million, and a 500 basis point improvement in the operating ratio to 70.0 percent for the quarter.
With growth across nearly all the markets we serve and continued strong performance in our operations, we are driving outstanding value for our customers and shareholders, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Full-year Results
CSX continued its excellent safety performance in 2010 and achieved a 17 percent reduction in its FRA personal injury rate to 1.00, an all-time record for the full year.
The company also delivered record financial results for the full year. Earnings were $1.56 billion, or $4.06 a share, versus $1.14 billion, or $2.89 a share, for 2009. These results were driven by strengthening volume, revenue, productivity and operating leverage, which also led to a record annual operating ratio of 71.1 percent.
CSX continued to apply its balanced approach to deploying capital for shareholders in 2010. The company invested $1.8 billion in its business, increased its dividend twice, repurchased $1.5 billion of its shares, and expects to repurchase approximately $300 million of its shares in the first quarter of this year, completing its current $3 billion share repurchase program.
 
1
 
2011 Expectations
CSX expects to produce record financial results, including a high-60s operating ratio in 2011.  This progress is consistent with the Companys previously announced goal of achieving a 65 percent operating ratio no later than 2015. In addition, the company plans to invest $2 billion in its business during 2011, with approximately two-thirds of that investment in the companys infrastructure and rolling stock, and the remaining split between strategic and regulatory investments.
This investment will further strengthen our companys transportation network, enhance our ability to reliably serve Americas freight transportation needs, and create shareholder value in the near- and long-term, said Ward.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is a leading transportation company providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The companys transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 25, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com.  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, liquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items,statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
(a) GAAP represents generally accepted accounting principles.
(b) The revenue-per-unit decline was primarily driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior interline agreement.  See the explanation for intermodal variances for further information.
 
7
 
 
(a) CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the companys business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the SEC may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results. In an effort to provide financial statement users with comparable information and because revenue can be systematically calculated on a weekly basis, CSX has provided financial information adjusted for the extra week, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business ope rations as well as provides comparable historical information. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
(b) The revenue-per-unit decline was primarily driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior interline agreement.  See the explanation for intermodal variances for further information.
 
8
 
CSX follows a 52/53 week fiscal reporting calendar. The fourth quarter of 2010 includes an extra week, making the fourth quarter 14 weeks and the year 53 weeks. In the following discussion of quarterly comparisons, the comparable 13 week periods outlined in the table on previous page are compared.
CSX fourth quarter results reflect continued strong year-over-year volume and revenue growth as a result of the improving economy.  The greatest volume increases occurred in the automotive, metals and intermodal markets.  Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in most markets.
Merchandise
Agricultural
 Volume was relatively flat with increased shipments of feed grains and ethanol offset by weakness in export feed ingredients.
Agricultural Products
 While demand was strong for domestic fertilizers resulting in significant revenue growth, volumes declined from the temporary loss of short haul phosphate moves within Florida.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Volume was flat as strength in refrigerated products and alcoholic beverages was offset by weakness in canned goods and appliances.
Food and Consumer
 Growth occurred across most markets reflecting improvement in demand for intermediate products used in manufacturing automobiles and consumer goods.
Chemicals
 Strong growth was due to an increase in North American light-vehicle production driven by higher sales.
Automotive
 Volume growth was driven by increased shipments of sheet steel for auto production and increases in scrap steel resulting from higher steel production.
Metals
 Volume and revenue gains were driven by increased shipments of minerals and waste as a result of overall market growth due to the improving economy.
Emerging Markets
 Volume increased despite the weakness in construction related markets with strength in shipments of pulp board and paper used in packaging for consumer products.
Forest Products
Coal
Growth was driven by higher export shipments due to greater demand for U.S. metallurgical coal, and by higher shipments to utility customers as stockpiles approach more normal levels.  The increase in revenue per unit was driven by improved yield, higher fuel recovery and positive mix.  Additionally, the fourth quarter of 2010 was negatively impacted by weather during the last month. In 2011, CSX expects to ship approximately 35 to 40 million tons of export coal.
Intermodal
Volume strength was primarily driven by the stronger U.S. economy and new international gains as a result of the intermodal portfolio of service and network offerings.  The revenue and revenue-per-unit decline was driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior interline agreement and was partially offset by increased fuel recovery and an improved pricing environment.
Other
 
9
 
Expenses increased $229 million from last years fourth quarter, including increases related to the extra week in fourth quarter 2010. Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $116 million. This increase was primarily driven by incremental volume, inflation, and higher incentive compensation.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense decreased $21 million due to several items:
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $96 million primarily due to higher prices and higher volume.
Fuel
 
expense increased $31 million due to a larger asset base related to higher capital spending and an additional week of expense due to the extra week.
Depreciation
expense increased $7 million primarily due to higher volume.
Equipment and Other Rents
 
10
 
 
11
 
Effective in the second quarter of 2010, CSX changed the accounting policy for rail grinding costs from a capitalization method, under which the cost of rail grinding was capitalized and then depreciated, to a direct expense method, under which rail grinding costs are expensed as incurred. This represents a change from an acceptable method under generally accepted accounting principles to a preferable method, and is consistent with recent changes in industry practice. The effects of this change are not material to the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity for any of the periods presented. All previous periods have been adjusted to reflect this change. For further details, see CSXs 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is required to be filed by March 1, 2011.
 
12
 
 
13
 
 


