FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20110309172334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 9, 2011, CSX Corporation issued a press release announcing that Alexandre Behring has informed the Company that he does not intend to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors at the upcoming annual meeting on May 4, 2011. Mr. Behring's decision was a consequence of the increased demands on his time associated with 3G Capital's recent acquisition of Burger King Holdings and was not a result of any disagreement with the Company.
A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company also announced that former Congressman J.C. Watts, Jr. and J. Steven Whisler will be included in the slate of directors for election at the upcoming annual meeting, which will increase the size of the Board of Directors to thirteen. The other candidates for the Board of Directors will include current directors: Donna M. Alvarado, John B. Breaux, Pamela L. Carter, Steven T. Halverson, Edward J. Kelly, III, Gilbert H. Lamphere, John D. McPherson, Timothy T. O'Toole, David M. Ratcliffe, Donald J. Shepard and Michael J. Ward.
 
 
99.1     Press Release dated March 9, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 9, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 CSX Corporation today announced the names of the directors to be nominated for election at its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and said the size of the Board will be increased to 13 members. CSX reported that one current director will not stand for re-election and that two new candidates will be included in the slate.
JACKSONVILLE, March 9, 2011
Alexandre Behring has informed the Company that he does not intend to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors at the upcoming meeting on May 4, 2011. Mr. Behring, Managing Director of 3G Capital, said his decision was a consequence of the increased demands on his time associated with 3G Capital's recent acquisition of Burger King Holdings.
Michael J. Ward, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of CSX, stated, "Personally and on behalf of the Company, I would like to thank Alex for his many contributions to the CSX Board of Directors. His perspective will be missed, and we wish him the best as he focuses on this new business."
Behring said, "I am confident that CSX and its employees will continue to implement the Company's strategy successfully, to create shareholder value and to benefit the economy through the provision of essential transportation services. I have valued the experience and collaboration of this management team and Board."
CSX also announced that two new candidates will be included in the slate of directors  former Congressman J.C. Watts, Jr. and J. Steven Whisler. Watts, 53, is the Chairman and founder of J.C. Watts Companies, LLC and Watts Partners, a public affairs and corporate consulting business. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 until 2003. Watts currently serves as a director on the board of Dillard's, Inc. Whisler, 56, is the retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Phelps Dodge Corporation. He currently serves on the board of directors of Brunswick Corporation, International Paper Co. and US Airways Group, Inc.
The other candidates for the Board of Directors will include current directors: Donna M. Alvarado, John B. Breaux, Pamela L. Carter, Steven T. Halverson, Edward J. Kelly, III, Gilbert H. Lamphere, John D. McPherson, Timothy T. O'Toole, David M. Ratcliffe, Donald J. Shepard and Michael J. Ward.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at the company's web site, www.csx.com.


