FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20110713143827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 13, 2011
CSX CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Virginia
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
500 Water Street, 15
th
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32202
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(904) 359-3200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(e) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 13, 2011, the CSX Corporation Board of Directors authorized an increase in its 2011 capital investments to $2.2 billion, up from the previously announced $2 billion.  In addition, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 15, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report under Item 7.01 shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
 
 
 
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Carolyn T. Sizemore
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: July 13, 2011

CSX Increases 2011 Capital Investment to $2.2 billion;
Declares Quarterly Dividend
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 13, 2011 - The CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) Board of Directors today authorized an increase in 2011 capital investment for certain asset purchases - primarily railcars to meet the growing near- and long-term demand for export coal. As a result, the company now expects to make 2011 capital investments of $2.2 billion, up from the previously announced $2 billion. 
The increase is consistent with CSX's previously announced intention to reinvest an average of 18 percent of its revenues back into its business through 2015. It also supports the company's near- and long-term financial guidance.
Also today, the Board of Directors approved a $0.12 per share quarterly dividend on the company's common stock. The dividend is payable on September 15, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2011.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CSX's network connects more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This press release and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items, statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," "preliminary" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.
SOURCE CSX Corporation


