FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20111018160041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 18, 2011
CSX CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Virginia
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
500 Water Street, C900, Jacksonville, FL 32202
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(904) 359-3200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 18, 2011, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website,
www.csx.com
.*
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.    EXHIBITS
(d)    The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
    
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: October 18, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
CSX Announces Record Third Quarter Results
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
Jacksonville, Fla.
- October 18, 2011 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced third quarter net earnings of $464 million, or $0.43 per share, versus $414 million, or $0.36 per share, in the same period last year. This is a 19 percent improvement in earnings per share and a record third quarter for the company.
Even as the economy moderated, CSX delivered strong financial results while investing in additional resources to strengthen customer service, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. This helped position our business, our customers and our communities for growth in the near- and long-term.
Revenue in the quarter improved 11 percent from the prior year to nearly $3 billion, with increases across all of the company's major markets. These results reflect the compelling value of freight rail transportation and fuel recoveries that offset higher costs. The higher revenue, coupled with the company's on-going focus on profitable growth, increased operating income to a third quarter record of $878 million and produced an operating ratio of 70.4 percent.
At the same time, the company expects to achieve its target of a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website
at http://investors.csx.com a
nd on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 19, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items,
statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
and the company's website at www.csx.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
CSX Announces Record Third Quarter Results
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
Jacksonville, Fla.
- October 18, 2011 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced third quarter net earnings of $464 million, or $0.43 per share, versus $414 million, or $0.36 per share, in the same period last year. This is a 19 percent improvement in earnings per share and a record third quarter for the company.
Even as the economy moderated, CSX delivered strong financial results while investing in additional resources to strengthen customer service, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. This helped position our business, our customers and our communities for growth in the near- and long-term.
Revenue in the quarter improved 11 percent from the prior year to nearly $3 billion, with increases across all of the company's major markets. These results reflect the compelling value of freight rail transportation and fuel recoveries that offset higher costs. The higher revenue, coupled with the company's on-going focus on profitable growth, increased operating income to a third quarter record of $878 million and produced an operating ratio of 70.4 percent.
At the same time, the company expects to achieve its target of a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
1
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on October 19, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items,
statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.
2
CSX Corporation
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
3
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
4
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
5
CSX Corporation
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
6
CSX Corporation
7
CSX Corporation
VOLUME AND REVENUE
The Company achieved positive year-over-year volume and revenue results as demand for rail service in the markets CSX serves continues to support profitable growth. The overall increase in volume reflects strength driven by growth in metals and forest products. Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in all markets.
Merchandise
Agricultural
Agricultural Products
- Volume decreased due to reduced demand for feed shipments as a result of limited supply, higher corn prices and decreased production from producers of poultry and pork.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
- Shipments of fertilizers grew as farmers used more fertilizer to improve crop yields in response to high crop prices.
Food and Consumer
- Volume declined due to decreased shipments of alcoholic beverages and appliances caused by higher beer inventories and continued weakness in the housing sector, respectively.
Industrial
Chemicals
- Volume was flat as strength in demand for intermediate products, used in manufacturing consumer goods and automobiles, was offset by weakness in plastics due to high inventories. Intermediate products are key inputs in the production of both durable and nondurable goods as well as packaging.
Automotive
- Automotive volume grew as a result of increased North American automotive production.
Metals
- Volume growth was driven by higher domestic steel production resulting from strong demand from the automotive and energy sectors for products such as sheet steel and pipe. This increased production, along with international demand, resulted in a large increase in scrap shipments.
Housing and Construction
Emerging Markets
- Volume increased due to improved shipments of cement, aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) and waste as a result of overall growth in these markets.
Forest Products
- Volume increased, despite the weakness in housing-related markets, with strength in shipments of pulp board and paper used in packaging for consumer products and a slight increase in demand for building products as a result of storm-related damage and low inventories.
Coal
Shipments of utility coal declined as electrical generation was flat in the eastern U.S., natural gas prices remained low and utility stockpiles were slightly above target levels. This decrease was partially offset by higher export shipments driven by greater demand for U.S. coal in Europe, Asia and South America. The increase in revenue per unit reflects improved yield, fuel recovery and positive mix.
Intermodal
Volume was flat as growth in domestic shipments was offset by weakness in international volume. Domestic shipments increased as higher fuel prices led to over-the-road conversions. International volume declined due to difficult comparisons from an early peak shipping season in 2010, versus a later, more moderate peak shipping season this year. The increase in revenue per unit primarily reflects higher fuel recovery due to rising fuel prices and yield improvement.
Other
Other revenue decreased due to lower contract volume commitments and incidental charges partially offset by higher affiliate revenue.
8
CSX Corporation
EXPENSE
Expenses increased $244 million from last year's third quarter. Significant variances are described below.
Labor and Fringe
expense increased $34 million primarily due to the following:
Inflation related to higher wages and healthcare costs increased $29 million.
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $53 million due to the following:
Fuel
expense increased $133 million primarily due to a 44% increase in average price per gallon for locomotive fuel as well as higher non-locomotive fuel expense. (See Fuel Statistics table below)
9
CSX Corporation
OPERATING STATISTICS
(Estimated)
10
CSX Rail Network
11


