FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20110419160147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On April 19, 2011, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended April 1, 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  These documents are available on the Companys website, .*
www.csx.com
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.                                                                 EXHIBITS
(d)           The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:                                                                       
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 19, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
:
Contact
David Baggs, Investor Relations
904-359-4812
Lauren Rueger, Corporate Communications
877-835-5279
 
CSX Announces Record First Quarter Results
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced first quarter net earnings of $395 million, or $1.06 per share, versus $305 million, or $0.78 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 36 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share.
Jacksonville, Fla.  April 19, 2011
CSX delivered record financial results and achieved growth across nearly all markets in a growing economy, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  We expect these positive trends to continue, allowing CSX to make critical investments and meet the future transportation needs of our customers and the nation.
Revenue in the quarter improved 13 percent from the prior year to $2.8 billion, driven primarily by a 7 percent increase in overall volume. Shipments across all major markets  merchandise, intermodal and coal  increased as the economy continued to grow.
The higher revenue coupled with the companys focus on profitable growth drove a 22 percent increase in operating income to $773 million and a record first quarter operating ratio of 72.5 percent, a 210 basis point improvement year-over-year.
Consistent with prior guidance, CSX expects to deliver a high-sixties operating ratio in 2011, which keeps the company on a path to a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
http://investors.csx.com
 
 
 
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on April 20, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at .  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
http://investors.csx.com
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nations leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to over 230 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at .
www.csx.com
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxesliquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items,statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
,
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at .
www.sec.gov
www.csx.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
                     
 
 
 
Year-Over-Year Highlights:
 CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced first quarter net earnings of $395 million, or $1.06 per share, versus $305 million, or $0.78 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 36 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share.
Jacksonville, Fla.  April 19, 2011
CSX delivered record financial results and achieved growth across nearly all markets in a growing economy, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  We expect these positive trends to continue, allowing CSX to make critical investments and meet the future transportation needs of our customers and the nation.
Revenue in the quarter improved 13 percent from the prior year to $2.8 billion, driven primarily by a 7 percent increase in overall volume. Shipments across all major markets  merchandise, intermodal and coal  increased as the economy continued to grow.
The higher revenue coupled with the companys focus on profitable growth drove a 22 percent increase in operating income to $773 million and a record first quarter operating ratio of 72.5 percent, a 210 basis point improvement year-over-year.
Consistent with prior guidance, CSX expects to deliver a high-sixties operating ratio in 2011, which keeps the company on a path to a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the companys website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
 
1
 
                       [
 
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on April 20, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.  Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call.  In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com.  Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nations leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia, and connects to over 230 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxesliquidity, capital expenditures, share repurchases or other financial items,statements of managements plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and managements expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
,
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the companys success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the companys SEC reports, accessible on the SECs website at and the companys website at www.csx.com.
www.sec.gov
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
The Company achieved strong year-over-year volume and revenue growth as demand for rail service increased and economic conditions continued to improve.  Volume was higher in almost all markets with the greatest volume increases in automotive, emerging markets and intermodal.  Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in most markets.
Merchandise
 
Agricultural
 Volume declined as feed shipments were lower year over year primarily due to a surge in exports last year as a result of the drought in South America.
Agricultural Products
 Domestic demand was strong for fertilizers as farmers increased application to improve crop yields.  Export demand was also strong with recovery in exports to Central and South America after last years drought.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
 Volume was flat as strength in truckload conversions of refrigerated products (driven by higher fuel prices) and continued consumer demand for alcoholic beverages was offset by lower shipments of canned goods. 
Food and Consumer
 
 
 Growth occurred across most chemicals markets reflecting improvement in demand for intermediate products used in manufacturing automobiles and consumer goods.  Specifically, many plastics and chemicals are key inputs in the production of both durable and nondurable goods, as well as packaging.
Chemicals
 Strong growth was due to the continued increase in North American light-vehicle production driven by higher sales.
Automotive
 Volume growth was driven by continued increased shipments of sheet steel for auto production and increases in scrap steel resulting from higher steel production.
Metals
 
 
 Volume increased driven by improved shipments of aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) and waste as a result of overall market growth due to the improving economy.
Emerging Markets
 Volume increased despite the weakness in construction-related markets with strength in shipments of pulp board and paper used in packaging for consumer products.
Forest Products
 
Coal
Growth was driven by higher export shipments due to greater demand for U.S. coal in Europe, Asia and South America.  Utility coal shipments were weakened as electrical generation declined in the eastern U.S., most significantly in the Southeast.  Also contributing to this decline, natural gas prices continued to remain at low levels and utility stockpiles remained at or slightly above normal levels.  The increase in revenue per unit was driven by improved yield and positive mix.
Intermodal
Strength in volume was primarily driven by increased customer demand, the improving U.S. economy and new international gains as a result of the intermodal portfolio of service and network offerings.  The revenue-per-unit decline was driven by the continued impact of terminating the prior purchase transportation agreement in 2010 and was partially offset by an improved pricing environment and increased fuel recovery due to higher fuel prices.
 
8
 
Expenses increased $178 million from last years first quarter.  Significant variances are described below.
expense increased $36 million primarily due to inflation of $23 million.  Volume-related and other expenses were $13 million higher during the quarter.
Labor and Fringe
 
expense increased $11 million due to:
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $119 million primarily due to a 36% increase in average price per gallon as well as higher volume.  (See Fuel Statistics table below.)
Fuel
 
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 


