FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20110719160131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 19, 2011
CSX CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Virginia
(
State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
500 Water Street, C900, Jacksonville, FL 32202
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(904) 359-3200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 19, 2011, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended July 1, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website,
www.csx.com
.*
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.    EXHIBITS
(d)    The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
99.1    Press Release as of July 19, 2011 from CSX Corporation.
99.2    CSX Quarterly Financial Report.
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
    
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: July 19, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
CSX Announces Record Second Quarter Results
Year-Over-Year Highlights
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 19, 2011 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced second quarter net earnings of $506 million, or $0.46 per share, versus $414 million, or $0.36 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 28 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share.
As our markets continue to expand, CSX is delivering outstanding results for shareholders, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. At the same time, we are taking a number of actions to position the operations for greater customer demand, now and over the long-term.
Revenue in the quarter improved 13 percent from the prior year to $3.0 billion, with increases across all major markets - merchandise, intermodal and coal. Overall revenues were driven by volume growth, pricing that reflects the value of freight rail transportation, and recoveries that offset higher fuel prices.
The higher revenue, coupled with the company's focus on profitable growth, drove a 21 percent increase in operating income to a record $926 million, and an operating ratio of 69.3 percent, a 190 basis point improvement year-over-year.
As previously announced, CSX expects to make 2011 capital investments of $2.2 billion. That is consistent with its intentions to reinvest an average of 18 percent of its revenues into its business through 2015 to further enhance the capacity, quality and flexibility of its rail network. The company remains on target to achieve its current near- and long-term financial guidance, including a high-sixties operating ratio in 2011 and a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 20, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CSX's network connects more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This press release and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items, statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," "preliminary" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.

Exhibit 99.2
CSX Announces Record Second Quarter Results
Year-Over-Year Highlights
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., July 19, 2011 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced second quarter net earnings of $506 million, or $0.46 per share, versus $414 million, or $0.36 per share, in the same period last year. This represents a 28 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share.
As our markets continue to expand, CSX is delivering outstanding results for shareholders, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. At the same time, we are taking a number of actions to position the operations for greater customer demand, now and over the long-term.
Revenue in the quarter improved 13 percent from the prior year to $3.0 billion, with increases across all major markets - merchandise, intermodal and coal. Overall revenues were driven by volume growth, pricing that reflects the value of freight rail transportation, and recoveries that offset higher fuel prices.
The higher revenue, coupled with the company's focus on profitable growth, drove a 21 percent increase in operating income to a record $926 million, and an operating ratio of 69.3 percent, a 190 basis point improvement year-over-year.
As previously announced, CSX expects to make 2011 capital investments of $2.2 billion. That is consistent with its intentions to reinvest an average of 18 percent of its revenues into its business through 2015 to further enhance the capacity, quality and flexibility of its rail network. The company remains on target to achieve its current near- and long-term financial guidance, including a high-sixties operating ratio in 2011 and a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
1
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on July 20, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CSX's network connects more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This press release and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items, statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project," "estimate," "preliminary" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.
2
CSX Corporation
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
All share and per share data were retroactively restated to reflect the stock split which was effective May 31, 2011.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
3
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
4
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
5
CSX Corporation
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
6
CSX Corporation
7
CSX Corporation
VOLUME AND REVENUE
The Company achieved year-over-year volume and revenue growth as demand for rail service increased with the improving performance of the markets CSX serves. Volume was higher in most markets with the greatest volume increases in intermodal, forest products, food & consumer and metals. Overall coal volume decreased due to weakness in utility coal partially offset by strong export demand. Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices drove revenue-per-unit increases in all markets.
Merchandise
Agricultural
Agricultural Products
- Volume increased primarily due to more shipments of soybeans from the Midwest into the Southeast.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
- Overall volume was flat, however, shipments of fertilizers grew as farmers domestically and abroad used more fertilizer to improve crop yields and replenished inventories. These increases were offset by reduced shipments of phosphate rock due to supply shortages.
Food and Consumer
- Volume improved with increased consumer demand for alcoholic beverages. In addition, beer imports also improved with suppliers building inventory to meet expected demand.
Industrial
Chemicals
- Growth occurred across most chemicals markets reflecting improvement in demand for intermediate products used in manufacturing consumer goods and automobiles. These products are key inputs in the production of both durable and nondurable goods as well as packaging.
Automotive
- Automotive volume declined slightly as Japanese auto manufacturers producing cars in the U.S. were impacted by a lack of parts from suppliers affected by the disaster in Japan. This decrease was partially offset by increased production from the Big Three domestic automakers.
Metals
- Volume growth was driven by continued increased shipments of sheet steel for domestic auto production and increased scrap shipments due to strong export demand and higher domestic steel production.
Housing and Construction
Emerging Markets
- Volume increased due to improved shipments of cement, aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel) and waste as a result of overall growth in these markets.
Forest Products
- Volume increased despite the weakness in housing-related markets with strength in shipments of pulp board and paper used in packaging for consumer products.
Coal
Shipments of utility coal declined as natural gas prices remained low and utility stockpiles were at or slightly above normal levels. This decrease was partially offset by higher export shipments due to greater demand for U.S. coal in Europe, Asia and South America. The increase in revenue per unit reflects improved yield, fuel recovery and positive mix.
Intermodal
Strength in volume was primarily driven by the improving domestic and international markets CSX serves and new international gains as a result of the intermodal portfolio of service and network offerings. The increase in revenue per unit was driven by yield improvement and higher fuel recovery due to rising fuel prices.
8
CSX Corporation
EXPENSE
Expenses increased $198 million from last year's second quarter. Variances are described below.
Labor and Fringe
expense increased $43 million due to the following:
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $6 million due to the following:
Fuel
expense increased $127 million primarily due to a 39% increase in average price per gallon as well as higher volume. (See Fuel Statistics table below.)
Depreciation
increased $16 million primarily due to a higher asset base.
Equipment and Other Rents
increased $6 million primarily related to volume growth.
9
CSX Corporation
OPERATING STATISTICS
(Estimated)
10
CSX Rail Network
11


