FILE:CSX/CSX-8K-20120123160234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 23, 2012
CSX CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Virginia
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
500 Water Street, C900, Jacksonville, FL 32202
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(904) 359-3200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
__ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
__ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
__ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On January 23, 2012, CSX Corporation issued a press release and its CSX Quarterly Financial Report on financial and operating results for the quarter ended December 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the CSX Quarterly Financial Report is attached as Exhibit 99.2, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These documents are available on the Company's website,
www.csx.com
.*
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, has been furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
ITEM 9.01.    EXHIBITS
(d)    The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CSX CORPORATION
By:
/s/ CAROLYN T. SIZEMORE
    
Carolyn T. Sizemore
Vice President and Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: January 23, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
CSX Announces Record Fourth-Quarter
and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Per Share
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.
- January 23, 2012 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $0.43 per share, versus $0.38 per share in the same period last year. This represents a 13 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a fourth quarter record. The results were driven by revenues of nearly $3.0 billion, operating income of $841 million and an operating ratio of 71.5 percent.
CSX once again delivered record earnings per share while investing in resources to support high customer service levels and growth in the near- and long-term, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. Our performance in 2011 has set a strong foundation for growth, and CSX remains committed to achieving a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
For the full year, CSX generated record performance in revenue, operating income, operating ratio and earnings per share. Revenues increased 10 percent to $11.7 billion, operating income rose 11 percent to $3.4 billion, the operating ratio improved to 70.9 percent, and earnings per share improved 24 percent to $1.67.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 24, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a
live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CSX's network connects to more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items,
statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as will, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Exhibit 99.2
CSX Announces Record Fourth-Quarter
and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Per Share
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.
- January 23, 2012 - CSX Corporation (NYSE: CSX) today announced fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $0.43 per share, versus $0.38 per share in the same period last year. This represents a 13 percent year-over-year improvement in earnings per share and a fourth quarter record. The results were driven by revenues of nearly $3.0 billion, operating income of $841 million and an operating ratio of 71.5 percent.
CSX once again delivered record earnings per share while investing in resources to support high customer service levels and growth in the near- and long-term, said Michael J. Ward, chairman, president and chief executive officer. Our performance in 2011 has set a strong foundation for growth, and CSX remains committed to achieving a 65 percent operating ratio by no later than 2015.
For the full year, CSX generated record performance in revenue, operating income, operating ratio and earnings per share. Revenues increased 10 percent to $11.7 billion, operating income rose 11 percent to $3.4 billion, the operating ratio improved to 70.9 percent, and earnings per share improved 24 percent to $1.67.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is contained in the CSX Quarterly Financial Report available on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com and on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CSX executives will conduct a quarterly earnings conference call with the investment community on January 24, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Investors, media and the public may listen to the conference call by dialing 1-888-327-6279 (888-EARN-CSX) and asking for the CSX earnings call. (Callers outside the U.S., dial 1-773-756-0199). Participants should dial in 10 minutes prior to the call. In conjunction with the call, a live webcast will be accessible and presentation materials will be posted on the company's website at http://investors.csx.com. Following the earnings call, an internet replay of the presentation will be archived on the company website.
1
CSX Corporation, based in Jacksonville, Fla., is one of the nation's leading transportation companies, providing rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services. The company's transportation network spans approximately 21,000 miles, with service to 23 eastern states and the District of Columbia. CSX's network connects to more than 240 short line and regional railroads and more than 70 ocean, river, and lake ports. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This information and other statements by the company may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act with respect to, among other items: projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes
,
liquidity, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases or other financial items,
statements of management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved, statements concerning proposed new services, and statements regarding future economic, industry or market conditions or performance. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as will, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate, preliminary and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the company updates any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual performance or results could differ materially from that anticipated by any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements include, among others; (i) the company's success in implementing its financial and operational initiatives; (ii) changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation); (iii) legislative or regulatory changes; (iv) the inherent business risks associated with safety and security; (v) the outcome of claims and litigation involving or affecting the company; (vi) natural events such as severe weather conditions or pandemic health crises; and (vii) the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.
Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified in the company's SEC reports, accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the company's website at www.csx.com.
2
CSX Corporation
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(a)
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
3
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
4
CSX Corporation
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Dollars in millions)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
5
CSX Corporation
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
6
CSX Corporation
(a) GAAP represents generally accepted accounting principles.
(b) In the fourth quarter, CSX reduced revenue by $18 million correcting the first nine months of 2011 intermodal revenue on certain interline business. This adjustment is presented in other revenue for the fourth quarter table above as it relates to prior periods, however, it is presented in intermodal revenue for the full year. The impact relating to first, second and third quarters of 2011 were $5 million, $7 million and $6 million, respectively, and were immaterial to each quarter and full year.
7
CSX Corporation
(a)
Volume on a GAAP basis decreased (4%) (see previous page).  On a non-GAAP basis (as seen in the chart above), volume increased 1%; the 13 week period includes the Christmas to New Year's holiday week in 2011, but is not included in 2010.  The Association of American Railroad's (AAR) volume for both years' fourth quarter includes the Christmas to New Year's holiday week.   The AAR volume shows an increase of 4% in the fourth quarter versus a year ago. 
(b) CSX reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures used to manage the company's business that fall within the meaning of Regulation G (Disclosure of Non-GAAP Financial Measures) by the SEC may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparisons to prior reported results. In an effort to provide financial statement users with comparable information and because revenue can be systematically calculated on a weekly basis, CSX has provided financial information adjusted for the extra week, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Likewise, this information facilitates comparisons to financial results that are directly associated with ongoing business operations as well as provides comparable historical information. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for GAAP measures.
(c) In the fourth quarter, CSX reduced revenue by $18 million correcting the first nine months of 2011 intermodal revenue on certain interline business. This adjustment is presented in other revenue for the fourth quarter table above as it relates to prior periods, however, it is presented in intermodal revenue for the full year. The impact relating to first, second and third quarters of 2011 were $5 million, $7 million and $6 million, respectively, and were immaterial to each quarter and full year.
8
CSX Corporation
VOLUME AND REVENUE
(Comparable Non-GAAP)
CSX follows a 52/53 week fiscal reporting calendar. The fourth quarter of 2010 included an extra week, making the fourth quarter 14 weeks and the year 53 weeks. In the following discussion of quarterly comparisons, the comparable 13 week periods outlined in the table on the previous page are compared.
The Company achieved positive year-over-year volume and revenue results as demand for rail service in the markets CSX serves continued to support profitable growth. The overall increase in volume was led by growth in the merchandise markets. Ongoing emphasis on pricing above rail inflation, along with higher fuel recovery associated with the increase in fuel prices, drove revenue-per-unit increases in almost all markets.
Merchandise
Agricultural
Agricultural Products
- Volume decreased due to reduced feed shipments resulting from higher corn prices and lower production from producers of poultry and pork.
Phosphates and Fertilizers
- Shipments of phosphate rock, which is used to make fertilizer, grew as suppliers were stocking up in anticipation of a strong spring season.  Overall, revenue per unit declined mostly due to mix.
Food and Consumer
- Volume was flat with increases in manufactured goods and refrigerated products resulting from truckload conversions due to tight truck capacity offset by weakness in canned and other dry goods.
Industrial
Chemicals
- Volume was flat as plastics and their raw material inputs decreased due to weak domestic demand and volatile commodity prices which resulted in an inventory drawdown.  This weakness was offset by an increase in shipments of bio-diesel, used for heating, and strong growth in frac sand, used in certain oil and gas drilling operations.
Automotive
- Automotive volume grew as North American automotive production increased to meet pent up demand from delayed purchases during the slowed economy over the last few years.
Metals
- Volume growth was driven by strong export demand for scrap shipments and higher domestic steel production resulting from strong demand in the automotive and oil and gas markets for products such as sheet steel and pipe.
Housing and Construction
Emerging Markets
- Volume increased due to improved shipments of aggregates (which include crushed stone, sand and gravel), cement and waste (such as construction and demolition debris) driven by new distribution facilities as well as the mild winter weather allowed construction to continue longer than seasonally typical.
Forest Products
- Volume increased, despite the weakness in housing-related markets, as a result of a stronger end-of-year peak in export wood pulp and pulpboard shipments related to a stronger season as well as increased shipments of building products resulting from inventory replenishments.
 
Coal
Shipments of utility coal declined as electrical generation declined in the eastern U.S., natural gas prices remained low and utility stockpiles were above target levels. This decrease was partially offset by higher export shipments driven by greater demand for U.S. coal in Europe, South America and Asia. During 2011, CSX shipped 40.2 million tons of export coal. The increase in revenue per unit reflects improved yield and fuel recovery.
Intermodal
Volume was flat, as growth in domestic shipments was offset by weak international demand. Domestic shipments improved from continued strength in over-the-road conversions due to higher fuel prices and expanded service offerings. International volume declined as retailers had a more moderate peak season this year. The increase in revenue per unit was attributable to higher fuel recovery due to rising fuel prices and increased yields in both sectors.
9
CSX Corporation
EXPENSE
Expenses in the quarter increased $140 million from last year's fourth quarter. Significant variances are described below.
Labor and Fringe
expense increased $3 million primarily due to the following:
Materials, Supplies and Other
expense increased $84 million due to the following:
Fuel
expense increased $77 million primarily due to a 26% increase in average price per gallon for locomotive fuel. (See Fuel Statistics table below)
Depreciation
expense decreased $21 million. While a larger asset base increased depreciation, there were two items that more than offset this increase. There was a favorable impact related to an extra week of depreciation last year that was not repeated this year, as well as a favorable, multi-year adjustment related to retirements.
10
CSX Corporation
OPERATING STATISTICS
(Estimated)
 
(a)
(a) CSX follows a 52/53 week fiscal reporting calendar. The fourth quarter of 2010 included an extra week, making the fourth quarter 14 weeks and the year 53 weeks.
11
CSX Rail Network
12


