FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20021030185018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
           
_____________  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
Form 8-K
Date of Report  
October 30, 2002
(Date of earliest event reported)
AUTOZONE, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
123 South Front Street
Memphis, Tennessee 38103
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)(Zip Code)
 
(901) 495-6500
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
(Not applicable)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c)     Exhibits
    The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report:
Item 9.  Regulation FD Disclosure
    On October 30, 2002, AutoZone, Inc., transmitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission the Statements under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings as required by order of the Securities and Exchange Commission as related to AutoZone's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002. The Statements are attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1
SIGNATURES
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  
                                                                                                    AUTOZONE, INC.  
Date: October 30, 2002                                                            By:                                                                                                       Harry L. Goldsmith                                                                                                       Senior Vice President                                                                                                       & Secretary
/s/ Harry L. Goldsmith
EXHIBIT INDEX

        I, Michael G. Archbold, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AutoZone, Inc., state and attest that:
STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS
        I, Steve Odland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of AutoZone, Inc., state and attest that:
(1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of AutoZone, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
(2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of AutoZone, Inc.'s Board of Directors. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
Steve Odland
 
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, for AutoZone, Inc.;
 
all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of AutoZone, Inc., filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and
any amendments to the foregoing.
/s/ Steve Odland
October 30, 2002  
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 30th day of October, 2002.
Notary Public
/s/ Donald R. Rawlins
My Commission Expires: November 29, 2003    
STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS
  (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of AutoZone, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Audit Committee of AutoZone, Inc.'s Board of Directors. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": Michael Archbold
 
 
no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
 
no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
 
 
     
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2002, for AutoZone, Inc.;
all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of AutoZone, Inc., filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and
any amendments to the foregoing.
     
/s/ Michael Archbold
October 30, 2002  
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 30th day of October, 2002.
Notary Public
/s/ Donald R. Rawlins
My Commission Expires: November 29, 2003


