FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20020930200944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Washington, D.C. 20549  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
October 1, 2002
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
.
AUTOZONE, INC
         
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
123 South Front Street
Memphis, Tennessee 38103
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(901) 495-6500
(not applicable) Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits   
______________________________
        *Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
SIGNATURES
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.    
    AUTOZONE, INC.
                                                                                By: 
/s/  Harry L. Goldsmith
                                                                                        Harry L. Goldsmith
                                                                                        Senior Vice President, General Counsel
                                                                                        and Secretary-Customer Satisfaction
Dated:    October 1, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
______________________________
        *Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  

                Section 1. The Corporation may have offices at such places both within and without the State of Nevada as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.               Section 1. All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at any place within or outside the State of Nevada as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the Corporation.             Section 1. Subject to any limitations in the laws of the State of Nevada, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the number of directors may be changed from time to time by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors or the stockholders. No reduction of the number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of his term of office. A director need not be a stockholder of the Corporation. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the annual meeting may be made at such meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, by any committee or persons appointed by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Article III, Section 1. Such nominations by any stockholder shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.             Section 4. The directors may hold their meetings and have one or more offices, and keep the books of the Corporation outside of the State of Nevada.             Section 10. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power in reference to amending the Articles of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the By-Laws of the Corporation; and, unless the resolution, By-Laws, or the Articles of Incorporation expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend to authorize the issuance of stock, or to adopt Articles of Merger.             Section 13. (a) The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, except an action by or in the right of the Corporation, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses, including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the action, suit or proceeding if he either is not liable pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 78.138 or acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, does not, of itself, create a presumption that the person is liable pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 78.138 or did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.             Section 1. The officers of this Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall include a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Corporation may also have at the discretion of the Board of Directors such other officers as are desired, including a Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 hereof. In the event there are two or more Vice Presidents, then one or more may be designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or other similar or dissimilar title. At the time of the election of officers, the directors may by resolution determine the order of their rank. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws otherwise provide.             Section 6. The Chairman of the Board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Directors or prescribed by these By-Laws. The Chairman of the Board shall in addition be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 7 of this Article IV, if no such officer is elected.             Section 7. Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer, the Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of the Corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the Stockholders and, if there is no Chairman of the Board, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. He shall be an ex-officio member of all committees and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of Chief Executive Officer of corporations, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.             Section 8. In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform all duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. He shall be an ex-officio member of all committees and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of President of corporations, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.             Section 9. In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents (including those designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or other similar or dissimilar title) in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice Presidents shall have such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them, respectively, by the Board of Directors.             Section 10. The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose; and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws. The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of an Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature.             Section 12. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys, and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation, in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond, in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors, for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.             Section 1. Every holder of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares represented by the certificate owned by such stockholder in the Corporation.             Section 4. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.               Section 5. Upon surrender to the Corporation, or the transfer agent of the Corporation, of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books .             Section 6. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.               Section 7. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the laws of the State of Nevada.             Section 1. Distributions upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law.         Section 3. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, or such other persons, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.               Section 4. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.               Section 5. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the words "Corporate Seal, Nevada". Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.               Section 6. Whenever, under the provisions of the statutes or of the Articles of Incorporation or of these By-Laws, notice is required to be given to any director or stockholder, it shall not be construed to mean personal notice, but such notice may be given in any manner as may be permitted by law reasonably intended to give actual notice, to such address, physical or electronic, as appears on the records of the Corporation, with any required postage prepaid. Notice to any director may be by any reasonable means, including, without limitation, mail, personal delivery, facsimile, or electronic communication. All notices shall be deemed given when sent.             Section 1. Except as otherwise restricted in the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws:
THIRD
AMENDED AND RESTATED
BY-LAWS
OF
AUTOZONE, INC.
ARTICLE I.
OFFICES
ARTICLE II.
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
            Section 2. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time and place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-Laws.
            To be properly brought before the annual meeting, business must be either (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting (or any supplement or amendment thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by a stockholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
            A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class, series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II, Section 2. The officer of the Corporation presiding at an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the annual meeting that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Article II, Section 2, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the annual meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Written notice of the annual meeting stating the place, date and hour of the annual meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting.
            Section 3. The holders of a majority of the voting power of the Corporation's stock at any meeting of stockholders, which are present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these By-Laws. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum and the votes present may continue to transact business until adjournment. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, a majority of the voting stock represented in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat.
            Section 4. When a quorum is present at any meeting, action of the stockholders on a matter other than the election of directors is approved if the number of votes cast in favor of the action exceeds the number of votes cast in opposition to the action, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the statutes, or the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, a different vote is required in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders.
            Section 5. At each meeting of the stockholders, each stockholder having the right to vote may vote in person or may authorize another person or persons to act for him by proxy appointed in a reasonable manner as may be permitted by law, including, without limitation, a signed writing, telegram, facsimile, and electronic communication. All proxies must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation at the beginning of each meeting in order to be counted in any vote at the meeting. Each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power, registered in his name on the books of the Corporation on the record date set by the Board of Directors as provided in Article V, Section 6 hereof.
            Section 6. Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose, or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the Articles of Incorporation, may be called by the Chairman of the Board or President and shall be called by the President or the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors or by the holders of a majority of the shares of voting stock. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Written notice of a request for a meeting by the holders of a majority of the voting shares shall be accompanied by the name and record address of the stockholders proposing the special meeting, and the class, series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by each stockholder, and a description of any material interest of the stockholder in such business.
            Section 7. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. The written notice of any meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
            Section 8. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
            Section 9. Stockholders of the Corporation may only take action at an annual or special meeting of stockholders. Stockholders may not take action by written consent without a meeting.  
ARTICLE III
DIRECTORS
th
th
th
th
th
            Such stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (c) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the person, and (d) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice (a) the name and record address of the stockholder and (b) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. The officer of the Corporation presiding at an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders, except as provided in Section 2 of this Article III, and each director elected shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that unless otherwise restricted by the Articles of Incorporation or law, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, either with or without cause, from the Board of Directors at any meeting of stockholders by the holders of two-thirds of the voting power of the Corporation's stock.
            Section 2. Vacancies on the Board of Directors by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or otherwise, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. The directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until their successors are duly elected and shall qualify, unless sooner displaced. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute. If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office shall constitute less than a majority of the whole Board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten percent of the voting power of the Corporation's stock may summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office.
            Section 3. The property and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these By-Laws expressly conferred upon them, the Board may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Articles of Incorporation or by these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.    
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
            Section 5. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board.
            Section 6. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman or the President on twenty-four hours' notice to each director; special meetings shall be called by the Chairman, the President or the Secretary in like manner and on like notice on the written request of two directors unless the Board consists of only one director; in which case special meetings shall be called by the Chairman, the President or Secretary in like manner or on like notice on the written request of the sole director.
            Section 7. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the authorized number of directors shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum, shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute, by the Articles of Incorporation or by these By-Laws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. If only one director is authorized, such sole director shall constitute a quorum.
            Section 8. Unless otherwise restricted by the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
            Section 9. Unless otherwise restricted by the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
            Section 11. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.  
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
            Section 12. Unless otherwise restricted by the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.  
INDEMNIFICATION
            (b) The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses, including amounts paid in settlement and attorneys' fees actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of the action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation. Indemnification shall not be made for any claim, issue or matter as to which such a person has been adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction, after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom, to be liable to the Corporation or for amounts paid in settlement to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought or other court of competent jurisdiction determines upon application that in view of all the circumstances of the case, the person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court deems proper.
            (c) To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he must be indemnified by the Corporation against expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense.
            (d) Any indemnification under paragraphs (a) and (b), unless ordered by a court shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances. The determination shall be made (1) by the holders of a majority of the voting power of the corporation's stock, (2) by the Board of Directors by majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the act, suit or proceeding, (3) if a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who are not parties to the act, suit or proceeding so order, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) if a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the act, suit or proceeding cannot be obtained, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion.
            (e) Expenses incurred by an officer or director in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Section 13. Such expenses incurred by other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.
            (f) The indemnification and advancement of expenses authorized in or ordered by a court pursuant to the other paragraphs of this Section 13, (i) does not exclude any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any By-Law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, for either an action in his official capacity or an action in another capacity while holding his office except that indemnification, unless ordered by a court pursuant to paragraph (b) or for the advancement of expenses made pursuant to paragraph (e), may not be made to or on behalf of any director or officer if a final adjudication establishes that his acts or omissions involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of the law and was material to the cause of action; and (ii) continues for a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and inures to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. If a claim for indemnification or payment of expenses under this Section 13 is not paid in full within ninety (90) days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
            (g) The Board of Directors may authorize, by a vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board of Directors, the Corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Section 13.
            (h) The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation to enter into a contract with any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines, greater than those provided for in this Section 13.
            (i) For the purposes of this Section 13, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting Corporation, any constituent Corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Section with respect to the resulting or surviving Corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent Corporation if its separate existence had continued.
            (j) For purposes of this section, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this section.    
ARTICLE IV.
OFFICERS
            Section 2. The Board of Directors, at its first meeting after each annual meeting of stockholders, shall choose the officers of the Corporation.
            Section 3. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board.
            Section 4. The salaries of all officers and agents of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
            Section 5. The officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualify in their stead. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors.  
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PRESIDENT
VICE PRESIDENTS
SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARY
            Section 11. The Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors, or if there be no such determination, the Assistant Secretary designated by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.    
TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURER
            Section 13. The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board of Directors, or if there be no such determination, the Assistant Treasurer designated by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.    
ARTICLE V.
CERTIFICATES OF STOCK
            Section 2 Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.
            Section 3. If the Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations, restrictions and relative rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualification, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise provided in section 78.195 of the Revised Nevada Statutes, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue a statement setting forth the office or agency of the Corporation from which the stockholders may obtain a copy of a statement setting forth in full or summarizing the voting powers, designations, preferences, limitations, restrictions and relative rights of each class of stock or series thereof that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests.  
LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES
TRANSFERS OF STOCK
FIXING RECORD DATE
REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS
ARTICLE VI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
DISTRIBUTIONS
            Section 2. Before payment of any distribution there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for distributions such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing distributions, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purpose as the directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation, and the directors may abolish any such reserve.  
CHECKS
FISCAL YEAR
SEAL
NOTICES
            Section 7. Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the statutes or of the Articles of Incorporation or of these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.    
ARTICLE VII.
AMENDMENTS
            (a) Any provision of these By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed at the annual or any regular meeting of the Board of Directors without prior notice, or at any special meeting of the Board of Directors if notice of such alteration or repeal be contained in the notice of such special meeting.
            (b) These By-Laws may also be altered, amended or repealed at a duly convened meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the Corporation's stock. The stockholders may provide by resolution that any By-law provision repealed, amended, adopted or altered by them may not be repealed, amended, adopted or altered by the Board of Directors.
 

 
 
Execution Copy
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
(this""), dated as of August 9, 2002, is entered into by and among ., a Nevada corporation (the ""), the Lenders identified on the signature pages hereto and , as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").  Terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Amended Credit Agreement referred to below.
        THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT 
Amendment
AUTOZONE, INC
Borrower
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
W I T N E S S E T H:
, pursuant to a Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000 (as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 to Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 22, 2001 and as further modified or amended from time to time, the "") among the Borrower, the Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent, the Lenders have extended commitments to make a revolving credit facility available to the Borrower; and
        WHEREAS
Credit Agreement
, the Borrower, the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as set forth herein;
        WHEREAS
, in consideration of the agreements herein contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:
        NOW, THEREFORE
PART I DEFINITIONS
        SUBPART 1.    1.    .  Unless otherwise defined herein or the context otherwise requires, the following terms used in this Amendment, including its preamble and recitals, have the following meanings:
Certain Definitions
                 "" means the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Amended Credit Agreement
                "" as defined in .
Amendment No. 2 Effective Date
Subpart 3.1
PART II AMENDMENTS TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
        Effective on (and subject to the occurrence of) the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date, the Credit Agreement shall be amended in accordance with this .  Except as so amended, the Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Part II
        SUBPART 2.1.  .  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following new definitions in alphabetical order:
Amendment to Section 1.1
        (a)  "" means August 9, 2002.
Amendment No. 2 Effective Date
        (b)  "" means the pledge and deposit with or delivery to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the respective L/C Issuers and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the respective L/C Issuers (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders).  The terms "Cash Collateralized", "Cash Collateral", "Cash Collateralization" and "Cash Collateralizes" shall have corresponding meanings.  The Borrower hereby grants the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the respective L/C Issuer and the Lenders, a Lien on all such cash and deposit account balances.  Cash collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts of the Administrative Agent.  Notwithstanding the foregoing if, upon the termination of the Commitments and an acceleration of the Borrower's obligations pursuant to Section 8.2, a Letter of Credit may for any reason remain outstanding and partially or wholly undrawn, the cash collateral required pursuant to Section 2.4(g) may instead, at the option of the Administrative Agent, be held in a blocked, non-interest bearing deposit account of the respective L/C Issuer.
Cash Collateralize
          (c)  "" means the letters of credit outstanding on the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date and identified on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.4
        (d)  "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Commitment Percentage.
L/C Advance
          (e)  "" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Revolving Loan.
L/C Borrowing
        (f)  "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the renewal or increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
        (g)  "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit, any amendments thereto, any documents delivered in connection therewith, any application therefor, and any agreements, instruments, guarantees or other documents (whether general in application or applicable only to such Letter of Credit) governing or providing for (i) the rights and obligations of the parties concerned or at risk or (ii) any collateral security for such obligations.
L/C Documents
        (h)  "" means (i) SunTrust Bank, Bank of America, or, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, any other Lender that has agreed to act as the successor primary issuer of Letters of Credit, (ii) with respect to any outstanding Letter of Credit, the Lender that issued (in its capacity as an L/C Issuer hereunder) such Letter of Credit and (iii) with respect to any Letter of Credit requested hereunder, the L/C Issuer that has agreed to issue such Letter of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
        (i)  "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(d)(ii).
L/C Issuer Fees
          (j)  "" means, at any time, the sum of (i) the maximum amount which is, or at any time thereafter may become, available to be drawn under Letters of Credit then outstanding, assuming compliance with all requirements for drawings referred to in such Letters of Credit (ii) the aggregate amount of all drawings under Letters of Credit and honored by any L/C Issuer but not theretofore reimbursed, including all L/C Borrowings.
L/C Obligations
plus
        (k)  "" means any letter of credit issued hereunder and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.  A Letter of Credit may be a commercial letter of credit or a standby letter of credit.
Letter of Credit
        (l)  "" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a letter of credit in the form from time to time in use by an L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
        (m)  "" means the day that is thirty days prior to the Termination Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
        (n)  "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(d)(i).
Letter of Credit Fee
        (o)  "" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Revolving Committed Amount and $75,000,000.  The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Revolving Committed Amount.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
        (p)  "" means SunTrust Bank and its successors.
SunTrust
        SUBPART 2.2.  .  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further amended by replacing in their entirety the definitions set forth below with the following:
Further Amendments to Section 1.1
        (a)"" means, for purposes of calculating the applicable interest rate for any day for any Revolving Loan, the applicable rate of the Facility Fee for any day for purposes of Section 3.5(a), the applicable rate of the Utilization Fee for any day for the purposes of Section 3.5(c), or the applicable rate of the Letter of Credit Fee for any day for the purposes of 3.5(d)(i), the appropriate applicable percentage set forth on .  The Applicable Percentages shall be determined and adjusted on the following dates (each a ""):
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 1.1
Calculation Date
        (i)  where the Borrower has a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt of notice by the Administrative Agent of a change in any such debt rating, based on such debt rating(s); and
          (ii)  where the Borrower previously had a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, but either or both of S&P and Moody's withdraws its rating such that the Borrower's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt no longer is rated by either S&P or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Administrative Agent of notice of the withdrawal of the last to exist of such previous debt ratings, based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another rating for such debt of the Borrower or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement.
                The Applicable Percentage shall be effective from a Calculation Date until the next such Calculation Date.  The Administrative Agent shall determine the appropriate Applicable Percentages promptly upon receipt of the notices and information necessary to make such determination and shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change thereof.  Such determinations by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
          (b)  "" means (i) with respect to each Lender, the Revolving Commitment of such Lender, (ii) with respect to the Swingline Lender, the Swingline Commitment, and (iii) with respect to any L/C Issuer, the commitment to issue, extend and/or amend Letters of Credit under the Letter of Credit Sublimit."
Commitment
        (c)  "" means a collective reference to this Credit Agreement, the Notes, the L/C Documents (except that L/C Documents shall not constitute Credit Documents for purposes of Section 10.6), the Administrative Agent's Fee Letter and all other related agreements and documents issued or delivered hereunder or thereunder or pursuant hereto or thereto.
Credit Documents
        (d)  "" or ""  means the Revolving Loans, the Competitive Loans, the Swingline Loans (or any Swingline Loan bearing interest at the Base Rate or the Quoted Rate and referred to as a Base Rate Loan or a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan) and, to the extent applicable, the L/C Borrowings, individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Loan
Loans
        (e)  "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on (as such amount may be reduced or increased from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement), (i) to make Revolving Loans in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.1(a), (ii) to purchase participation interests in Letters of Credit in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.4(c), and (iii) to purchase participation interests in the Swingline Loans in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3(b)(iii).
Revolving Commitment
Schedule 2.1(a)
        SUBPART 2.3.  .  Section 2.1(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 2.1(a)(ii)
"(ii) with regard to the Lenders collectively, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Revolving Committed Amount."
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.4.  . Section 2.2(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 2.2(a)(ii)
"(ii) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Revolving Committed Amount."
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.5  . Section 2.2(i) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 2.2(i)
".  The Borrower shall not request a Competitive Loan if, assuming the maximum amount of Competitive Loans so requested is borrowed as of the date of such request, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding would exceed the aggregate Revolving Committed Amount."
Limitation on Number of Competitive Loans
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.6  .  Section 2.3(a)(ii) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 2.3(a)(ii)
"(ii) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Revolving Committed Amount."
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.7  .  Section 2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following as a new Section 2.4 in appropriate numerical order:
Amendment to Section 2
        2.4  Letters of Credit.
        (a)        .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
        (i)  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Section 2.4, (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue a requested Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower, and to amend or renew a Letter of Credit previously issued by such L/C Issuer, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drafts under any Letter of Credit such L/C Issuer has issued; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower; that no L/C Issuer shall be obligated to make any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, and no Lender shall be obligated to participate in any Letter of Credit, to the extent that, as of the date of such L/C Credit Extension, (x) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the aggregate principal amount of the Competitive Loans L/C Obligations outstanding shall exceed the Revolving Committed Amount or (y) the L/C Obligations would exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.  All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
provided
plus
plus
plus
          (ii)  No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
        (A)  any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date and which such L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
          (B)  the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than eighteen months after the date of issuance or last renewal, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date;
         (C)  the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date (pursuant to additional documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer); or
         (D)  such Letter of Credit is in a face amount less than $100,000, in the case of a commercial Letter of Credit, or $100,000, in the case of a standby Letter of Credit, or is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars.
        (iii)  No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
        (b)  .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Renewal Letters of Credit
        (i)  Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to an L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower.  Such L/C Application must be received by such L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) at least three Business Days prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be.  In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to such L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require.  In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require.
        (ii)  Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer receiving such Letter of Credit Application will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof.  Upon receipt by such L/C Issuer of confirmation from the Administrative Agent that the requested issuance or amendment is permitted in accordance with the terms hereof (such confirmation shall be provided to such L/C Issuer no later than the next Business Day following the Administrative Agent's receipt of a copy of such Letter of Credit Application), then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices.  Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the issuing L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Commitment Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
times
          (iii)  If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, any L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic renewal provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such renewal at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued.  Unless otherwise directed by such L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer for any such renewal.  Once an Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) such L/C Issuer to permit the renewal of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such renewal if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its renewed form under the terms hereof, or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is two Business Days before the Nonrenewal Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such renewal or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in Section 4.2 is not then satisfied.  No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to permit the renewal of an Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit under the terms of this Section 2.4.
Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit
provided
Nonrenewal Notice Date
provided
however
         (iv)  Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, each L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.  On the Business Day that is three Business Days prior to the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, each L/C Issuer will deliver to the Administrative Agent a report of all outstanding Letters of Credit issued, delivered, extended and/or amended by such L/C Issuer for the current calendar quarter (or portion thereof), with an estimate of any activity that is expected to occur during the remainder of such calendar quarter.  The Administrative Agent shall maintain at one of its offices in Charlotte, North Carolina a register for the recordation of the identity of the principal amount, type and undrawn amount of each Letter of Credit outstanding hereunder, the names and addresses of each beneficiary thereunder and the L/C Advances of the Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").
L/C Register
        (c)  .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
        (i)  Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof.  Not later than 11:00 A.M. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the date of any payment by such L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing (it being understood that such reimbursement may be accomplished pursuant to the application of funds held in a cash collateral account in accordance with the documentation governing such account).  If the Borrower fails to so reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent by such time, such L/C Issuer shall, prior to 11:30 A.M. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on such date, so notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and such Lender's Commitment Percentage thereof.  In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Base Rate Loan to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in Section 2.1(b)(ii) for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Revolving Committed Amount and the conditions set forth in Section 4.2 (other than the delivery of a Notice of Borrowing).  Any notice given by any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 2.4(c)(i) may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
provided
          (ii)  Each Lender (including the Lender acting as L/C Issuer) shall upon any notice pursuant to Section 2.4(c)(i) make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the issuing L/C Issuer in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Loan to the Borrower in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to such L/C Issuer.
Section 2.4(c)(iii)
         (iii)  With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Base Rate Loan because the conditions set forth in Section 4.2 cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the default rate as set forth in Section 3.1.  In such event, the applicable L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent, who in turn will promptly notify each Lender, and each Lender (including the Lender acting as L/C Issuer) that has not made funds available to such L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 2.4(c)(ii) shall, promptly upon any such notice, make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of such L/C Borrowing, whereupon each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and such payment shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this Section 2.4.  Likewise, to the extent a Lender has already made funds available pursuant to Section 2.4(c)(ii) in respect of any Unreimbursed Amount and such Unreimbursed Amount may not be refinanced by a Base Rate Loan because the conditions set forth in Section 4.2 cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the funds made available by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.4(c)(ii) in respect of such Unreimbursed Amount shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in the related L/C Borrowing and such payment shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this Section 2.4.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer.
         (iv)  Until each Lender funds its Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this Section 2.4(c) to reimburse the issuing L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Commitment Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of such L/C Issuer.
          (v)  Each Lender's obligation to make Base Rate Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse an L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this Section 2.4(c), shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including, without limitation, (A) any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against any L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or Event of Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Base Rate Loans pursuant to this Section 2.4(c) is subject to the conditions set forth in Section 4.2 (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Notice of Borrowing).  Any such reimbursement shall not relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse any L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
provided
however
          (vi)  If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of any L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.4(c) by the time specified in Section 2.4(c)(ii), such L/C Issuer shall be entitled (acting through the Administrative Agent) to recover from such Lender, on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.  A certificate of such L/C Issuer submitted (through the Administrative Agent) to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
         (vii)  With respect to any payment in respect of a Letter of Credit, each Lender (including the Lender acting as L/C Issuer) agrees to act in accordance with the ratable sharing of payments provisions set forth in Section 3.13.
        (d)  .
Repayment of Participations
        (i)  At any time after any L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with Section 2.4(c), if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), or any payment of interest thereon, the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Commitment Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
          (ii)  If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of any L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 2.4(c)(i) is required to be returned, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Commitment Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.
        (e)  .In the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct and subject to Section 2.4(h) regarding the applicability of "ISP98" and "UCP", the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit, and to repay each L/C Borrowing and each drawing under a Letter of Credit that is refinanced by a Base Rate Loan, shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
        (i)  any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Credit Agreement, or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
          (ii)  the existence of any claim, counterclaim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Credit Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
        (iii)  any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
        (iv)  any payment by any L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that appears on its face to be in order but that nevertheless does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by any L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any debtor relief law; or
        (v)  any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower.
        The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the applicable L/C Issuer.  The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the applicable L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
          (f)  .  Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuers shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document.  No L/C Issuer nor any Affiliate thereof nor any of the respective correspondents, participants or assignees of any L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Letter of Credit Application.  The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit (other than the presentation of any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit); , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. No L/C Issuer nor any Affiliate thereof, nor any of the respective correspondents, participants or assignees of any L/C Issuer, shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against an L/C Issuer, and such L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by such L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, any L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Role of L/C Issuers
provided
however
Section 2.4(e)
provided
however
         (g)  .
Cash Collateral
        (i)  Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (x) if an L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (y) if, as of (I) the Letter of Credit Expiration Date or (II) a termination of the Commitments and an acceleration of the Borrower's obligations pursuant to Section 8.2, any Letter of Credit may for any reason remain outstanding and partially or wholly undrawn, the Borrower shall immediately repay the then outstanding amount of all L/C Borrowings and/or Cash Collateralize the then outstanding amount of all L/C Obligations, as applicable (in an amount equal to such outstanding amount determined as of the date of such L/C Borrowing, the Letter of Credit Expiration Date or date of termination of the Commitments and acceleration of the Borrower's obligations pursuant to Section 8.2, as the case may be, such amount to be applied in the manner set forth in Section 3.3(b)(iv)).
          (ii)  Upon the (x) termination or expiration of any Letter of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall return and release the Borrower the amounts Cash Collateralized equal to the L/C Obligation associated with the terminated or expired Letter of Credit (but only to the extent that all remaining L/C Obligations that are then required to be Cash Collateralized under this Credit Agreement are full Cash Collateralized) or (y) payment in full in cash of all of the obligations owed under this Credit Agreement, the termination or cancellation of all Letters of Credit issued hereunder, and the termination of all commitments hereunder, the pledge, Lien and security interest granted hereby shall terminate and al rights to the amounts Cash Collateralized shall revert to the Borrower.  Upon any such termination, the Administrative Agent will, at the Borrower's expense, execute and deliver to the Borrower such documents as it shall reasonably request to evidence such termination.
        (h)  .  Unless otherwise expressly agreed by each L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), (i) the rules of the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance) shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce (the "") at the time of issuance (including the ICC decision published by the Commission on Banking Technique and Practice on April 6, 1998 regarding the European single currency (euro)) shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP98 and UCP
ICC
          (i)  .  In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Letter of Credit Application, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Letter of Credit Application
         (j)  .  Each Lender may assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations of participation in the Letters of Credit issued hereunder in accordance with the terms and conditions for such assignments as set forth in Section 10.3(b).  If at any time Bank of America or such other L/C Issuer assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to Section 10.3(b), Bank of America or such L/C Issuer may, upon thirty (30) days' notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as an L/C Issuer.  In the event of any such resignation of an L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of any L/C Issuer.  Each of Bank of America, SunTrust and such other L/C Issuer shall retain all the rights and obligations of an L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as an L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.4(c)).
Assignments
provided
however
         (k)  .  Notwithstanding anything in Section 10.6 to the contrary, no provision of this Section 2.4 may be amended without the consent of any L/C Issuer directly affected thereby.
Amendment
        (l)  .  If any L/C Issuer (i) issues or amends a Letter of Credit without confirming with the Administrative Agent that the requested issuance or amendment is permitted in accordance with the terms hereof as is required pursuant to Section 2.4(b)(ii) (or in disregard of the information conveyed by the Administrative Agent in response to such confirmation request) or (ii) fails to provide the Administrative Agent with a proper reporting of any activity with respect to Letters of Credit issued or requested of such L/C Issuer during the current calendar quarter as is required pursuant to Section 2.4(b)(iv), and the result of such action or inaction is to cause, at any time, (A) the outstanding L/C Obligations to exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit or (B) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding to exceed the Revolving Committed Amount, then such L/C Issuer shall be solely responsible for collecting payment for unreimbursed draws thereunder from the Borrower, and the Lenders shall not be required to participate in the L/C Obligations relating thereto.
Responsibility of L/C Issuer for Causing the Letter of Credit Sublimit To Be Exceeded
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.8.  .  Section 3.3(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 3.3(b)
                (b)  .
Mandatory Prepayments
        (i)  .  If at any time, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans L/C Obligations outstanding the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall exceed the Revolving Committed Amount, the Borrower promises to immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize undrawn L/C Obligations in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess (such payments to be applied as set forth in clause (iv) below).
Commitment Limitation
plus
plus
plus
        (ii)  .  During any period in which the Borrower has a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P of below BBB- and a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from Moody's of below Baa3, immediately upon receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of proceeds from any Debt or Equity Issuance (as defined below) the Borrower shall cause 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance to be applied as follows:
Debt and Equity Issuances
        (A)  to prepay the principal amount of any borrowings outstanding under the Facilities and/or (after all Loans have been repaid) Cash Collateralize outstanding L/C Obligations, with such prepayment applied pro rata to the Facilities and/or L/C Obligations (based on outstanding commitments thereunder) to the extent of outstanding borrowings under each Facility (it being understood that the aggregate amount of prepayments required to be made by the Borrower under both Facilities shall not exceed 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance); and
          (B)  to permanently reduce on a Dollar for Dollar basis commitments outstanding under the Facilities (regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings being prepaid), with such reductions applied pro rata to the Facilities (based on outstanding commitments thereunder) to the extent of outstanding commitments under each Facility (it being understood that the aggregate amount of commitment reductions required to be made by the Borrower under both Facilities shall not exceed 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance and that a commitment reduction under a Facility shall reduce the individual commitments of the lenders under such facility on a pro rata basis).
Any payment made pursuant to this Section 3.3(b)(ii) shall be applied as set forth in clause (iv) below and shall be accompanied by interest on the principal amount prepaid through the date of prepayment.  For purposes hereof, "" means the issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (to a Person other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) of (I) any Indebtedness for borrowed money in the form of publicly issued or privately placed bonds or other debt securities with a maturity of three years or greater or (II) any shares of capital stock or other equity securities (other than shares of capital stock issued by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the exercise of stock options).
Debt or Equity Issuance
        (iii)  .  If at any time, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of L/C Obligations shall exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit, the Borrower shall immediately repay L/C Borrowings and, within seven (7) days, Cash Collateralize undrawn L/C Obligations in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess (such payments to be applied as set forth in clause (iv) below).  It is understood that if the Borrower is able to eliminate such excess within the seven-day grace period through the reduction of L/C Obligations, then no Cash Collateralization shall be required by the Borrower under this clause (iii).
Letter of Credit Sublimit
          (iv)  .  All amounts required to be paid pursuant to this Section 3.3(b) (as well as amount required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.4(g)(i)) shall be applied as follows: (A) with respect to all amounts paid pursuant to Section 3.3(b)(i) or Section 3.3(b)(ii), to (I) Swingline Loans, (II) L/C Borrowings that have not been reimbursed through L/C Advances, (III) L/C Advances and Revolving Loans, (IV) Competitive Loans and (V) Cash Collateralize undrawn L/C Obligations and (B)   with respect to all amounts paid pursuant to Section 3.3(b)(iii), to (I) L/C Borrowings that have not been reimbursed through L/C Advances, (II) L/C Advances and (III) Cash Collateralize undrawn L/C Obligations.  Within the parameters of the applications set forth above, payments shall be applied first to Base Rate Loans and then to Eurodollar Loans in direct order of Interest Period maturities.  All payments under this Section 3.3(b) shall be subject to Section 3.11, but otherwise without premium or penalty, and shall be accompanied by interest on the principal amount paid through the date of payment.
Application of Mandatory Prepayments
        SUBPART 2.9.  .  Section 3.4(a) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following after the words "Competitive Loans ":
Amendment to Section 3.4(a)
plus
"L/C Obligations outstanding "
plus
        SUBPART 2.10.  .  Section 3.4(c) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following immediately after the words "the Lenders" in the first sentence of Section 3.4(c):
Amendment to Section 3.4(c)
", the commitment of any L/C Issuer to issue Letters of Credit under the Letter of Credit Sublimit"
        SUBPART 2.11.  .  Section 3.5(c) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following immediately after the words "all outstanding Loans" and the words "all Loans outstanding" in the first sentence of Section 3.5(c):
Amendment to Section 3.5(c)
", all L/C Obligations outstanding,"
plus
        SUBPART 2.12.  .  Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following Section 3.5(d) immediately after Section 3.5(c) found therein:
Amendment to Section 3.5
(d) .
Letter of Credit Fees
        (i)  .  In consideration of the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder, the Borrower promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a fee (the "") on such Lender's Commitment Percentage of the average daily maximum amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit computed at a per annum rate for each day from the date of issuance to the date of expiration equal to the Applicable Percentage for Eurodollar Loans and Letter of Credit Fee.  The Letter of Credit Fee will be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December for the immediately preceding quarter (or a portion thereof).
Letter of Credit Fee
Letter of Credit Fee
          (ii)  .  In addition to the Letter of Credit Fee payable pursuant to clause (i) above, the Borrower promises to pay to each L/C Issuer for its own account without sharing by the other Lenders (A) a letter of credit fronting fee as negotiated between the Borrower and such L/C Issuer on the average daily maximum amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer computed at the per annum rate for each day from the date of issuance to the date of expiration and (B) such other customary charges from time to time of such L/C Issuer with respect to the issuance, amendment, transfer, administration, cancellation and conversion of, and drawings under, and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to such Letters of Credit as from time to time in effect, due and payable on demand therefor by such L/C Issuer (collectively, the "").
L/C Issuer Fees
L/C Issuer Fees
        SUBPART 2.13.  .  Section 3.14(b) of the Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety by the following:
Amendment to Section 3.14(b)
        (b)  . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement to the contrary, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all amounts collected or received by the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of the Loans, L/C Obligations, Fees or any other amounts outstanding under any of the Credit Documents shall be paid over or delivered as follows:
Allocation of Payments After Event of Default
        FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees) of the Administrative Agent in connection with enforcing the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents;
          SECOND, to payment of any fees owed to the Administrative Agent;
         THIRD, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) of each of the Lenders in connection with enforcing its rights under the Credit Documents or otherwise with respect to amounts owing to such Lender;
         FOURTH, to the payment of accrued fees and interest;
        FIFTH, to the payment of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans (including, without limitation, the payment or cash collateralization of the outstanding L/C Obligations);
        SIXTH, to all other amounts and other obligations which shall have become due and payable under the Credit Documents or otherwise and not repaid pursuant to clauses "FIRST" through "FIFTH" above; and
        SEVENTH, to the payment of the surplus, if any, to whomever may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus.
        In carrying out the foregoing, (i) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category; (ii) each of the Lenders shall receive an amount equal to its pro rata share (based on the proportion that the then outstanding Loans held by such Lender bears to the aggregate then outstanding Loans) of amounts available to be applied pursuant to clauses "THIRD", "FOURTH", "FIFTH" and "SIXTH" above; and (iii) to the extent that any amounts available for distribution pursuant to clause "FIRST" above are attributable to the issued but undrawn amount of outstanding Letters of Credit, such amounts shall be Cash Collateralized by the Administrative Agent and applied (A) first, to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuers from time to time for any drawings under such Letters of Credit and (B) then, following the expiration of all Letters of Credit, to all other obligations of the types described in clauses "THIRD" and "SIXTH" above in the manner provided in this Section 3.14(b).
        SUBPART 2.14.  .  Section 4.2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following after the parenthetical found in the first sentence of Section 4.2:
Amendment to Section 4.2
", and of any L/C Issuer to issue a Letter of Credit hereunder,"
        SUBPART 2.15.  .  Each of Sections 4.2(a) and (e) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety with the following, as applicable:
Amendments to Sections 4.2(a) and (e)
        "(a)  The Borrower shall have delivered (A) in the case of any Revolving Loan to the Administrative Agent, an appropriate Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Extension/Conversion, (B) in the case of any Swingline Loan to the Administrative Agent, an appropriate Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Extension/Conversion or (C) in the case of any Letter of Credit, to the applicable L/C Issuer an appropriate request for issuance (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.4(b);"
          "(e)  Immediately after giving effect to the making of such Loan (and the application of the proceeds thereof) or the issuance of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans the L/C Obligations outstanding shall not exceed the Revolving Committed Amount."
plus
plus
plus
        SUBPART 2.16.  .  Section 5.13 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following after the last sentence found therein:
Amendment to Section 5.13
        "The Letters of Credit shall be used only for or in connection with obligations relating to transactions entered into by the Borrower in the ordinary course of business."
        SUBPART 2.17.  .  Section 8.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended inserting the following new Section 8.1(i):
Amendment to Section 8.1
       (i)  .  The Borrower shall (i) default in the payment when due of any reimbursement obligations arising from drawings under Letters of Credit (it being understood that such payment may be accomplished pursuant to the application of proceeds from a new Base Rate Loan made in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.4(c) or pursuant to the application of funds held in a cash collateral account) or (ii) default, and such defaults shall continue for five (5) or more Business Days, in the payment when due of any interest on any reimbursement obligations arising from drawings under Letters of Credit."
Letters of Credit
        SUBPART 2.18.  .  Section 8.2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new Section 8.2(d) and subsequent language immediately following 8.2(c) found therein:
Amendment to Section 8.2
        "(d)  .  Direct the Borrower to pay (and the Borrower agrees that upon receipt of such notice, or upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under Section 8.1(d), it will immediately pay) to the Administrative Agent additional cash, to be held by the Administrative Agent (or as otherwise specified in the definition of "Cash Collateralize"), for the benefit of the Lenders, in a cash collateral account as additional security for the L/C Obligations in respect of subsequent drawings under all then outstanding Letters of Credit in an amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount which may be drawn under all Letters of Credits then outstanding.
Cash Collateral
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in Section 8.1(d) shall occur, then the Commitments shall automatically terminate and all Loans, reimbursement obligations arising from drawings under Letters of Credit, all accrued interest in respect thereof, all accrued and unpaid Fees and other indebtedness or obligations owing to the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Lenders hereunder in respect thereof automatically shall immediately become due and payable without the giving of any notice or other action by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders."
        SUBPART 2.19.  .  Section 9.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting an "(a)" before the words "Each Lender" in the first paragraph therein, and adding the following new Section 9.1(b) immediately following Section 9.1(a):
Amendment to Section 9.1
        (b)  Each L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith until such time (and except for so long) as the Administrative Agent may agree at the request of the Required Lenders to act for such L/C Issuer with respect thereto; , , that such L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (i) provided to the Administrative Agent in this Section 9 with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and the application and agreements for letters of credit pertaining to the Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in this Section 9 included such L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (ii) as additionally provided herein with respect to such L/C Issuer.
provided
however
        SUBPART 2.20.  .  Section 9.8 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety with the following:
Amendment to Section 9.8
9.8 .
Administrative Agent in its Individual Capacity
        "Bank of America, each other L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Borrower and its respective Affiliates as though Bank of America were not the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer were not an L/C Issuer hereunder, as applicable, and without notice to or consent of the Lenders.  The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, Bank of America, each L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates may receive information regarding the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of the Borrower or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that neither the Administrative Agent nor such L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to provide such information to them.  With respect to its Loans or any Letter of Credit issued by it, Bank of America or such other L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall have the same rights and powers under the Credit Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include Bank of America or such other L/C Issuer, as applicable, in its individual capacity."
        SUBPART 2.21  .  Section 10.1 of the Credit Agreement is amended to include the following information:
Amendment to Section 10.1
For Letter of Credit Applications:
 
:
For Bank of America, as L/C Issuer
Bank of America, N.A.
Attn: Sandra Leon
Trade Finance - Standby Letters of Credit
Mail Code: CA9-703-19-23
333 South Beaudry Street
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Telephone:  (213) 345-6632
Telecopy:  (213) 345-6694
  with copy to:
Bank of America, N.A.
Attn:  Jeff Khamsivone
CA4-706-05-09
1850 Gateway Blvd.
Concord, CA  94520
Telephone:  (925) 675-8432
Telecopy:  (888) 969-2451
 
:
For SunTrust, as L/C Issuer
  SunTrust Bank
Attn:  Letter of Credit Department
25 Park Place, 16th Floor
MC-3706
Atlanta, Georgia  30303
Telecopy:  404-588-8129
  with a copy to:
SunTrust Bank
Attn:  Bryan W. Ford, Director
6410 Poplar Avenue; Ste 320
Memphis, TN  38119
Telecopy:  901-766-7565
Bank of America, N.A.
Attn:  Jeff Khamsivone
CA4-706-05-09
1850 Gateway Blvd.
Concord, CA  94520
Telephone:  (925) 675-8432
Telecopy:  (888) 969-2451
        SUBPART 2.22.  .  Schedule 1.1 ("Applicable Percentage") and Schedule 10.3(b) ("Form of Assignment and Acceptance") are hereby amended in their entirety by the new Schedule 1.1 and Schedule 10.3(b) attached hereto.
Amendment to Schedules
        SUBPART 2.23.  .  The Schedules are hereby amended by including therein the new Schedule 2.4 "Existing Letters of Credit" attached hereto.
Further Amendment to Schedules
PART III CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS
        SUBPART 3.1.  .  This Amendment shall be and become effective as of the date hereof (the "") when all of the conditions set forth below in this Part III shall have been satisfied.
Amendment No. 2 Effective Date
Amendment No. 2 Effective Date
        SUBPART 3.2.  .  The Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts (or other evidence of execution, including telephonic message, satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) of this Amendment, which collectively shall have been duly executed on behalf of each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as an L/C Issuer, SunTrust Bank, as an L/C Issuer, and the Required Lenders.
Execution of Counterparts of Amendment
        SUBPART 3.3.  .  The Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, and its counsel shall have received, and be satisfied with, any supporting documentation as the Agent may reasonably request as of the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date.
Legal Details, Etc
PART IV MISCELLANEOUS
        SUBPART 4.1.  .  References in this Amendment to any Part or Subpart are, unless otherwise specified, to such Part or Subpart of this Amendment.
Cross-References
        SUBPART 4.2.  .  This Amendment is a Credit Document executed pursuant to the Credit Agreement and shall (unless otherwise expressly indicated therein) be construed, administered and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Amended Credit Agreement.
Instrument Pursuant to Credit Agreement
        SUBPART 4.3.  .  At such time as this Amendment shall become effective pursuant to the terms of , all references in the Credit Documents to the "Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to refer to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment.
References in Other Credit Documents
Subpart 3.1
        SUBPART 4.4.  .  The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties
        (a)  It has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment.
          (b)  This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes the Borrower's legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
        (c)  No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any court or governmental authority or third party is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Amendment.
        (d)  The representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 of the Amended Credit Agreement are, subject to the limitations set forth therein, true and correct in all material respects as of the Amendment No. 2 Effective Date (except for those which expressly relate to an earlier date).
        (e)  Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Amendment and after giving effect hereto, no Default or Event of Default exists under the Amended Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents.
        (f)  All of the provisions of the Credit Documents, except as amended hereby, are in full force and effect.
        SUBPART 4.5.  .  Except as expressly modified and amended in this Amendment, all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Credit Documents shall remain unchanged and shall continue in full force and effect.
No Other Changes
 
      SUBPART 4.6.  .  This Amendment may be executed by the parties hereto in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which shall constitute together but one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart by telecopy shall be effective as an original and shall constitute a representation that an original will be delivered.
Counterparts/Telecopy
        SUBPART 4.7.  . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER AND GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Governing Law
        SUBPART 4.8.  .  This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
        SUBPART 4.9.  . THIS AMENDMENT, THE AMENDED CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS EMBODY THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND SUPERSEDE ALL PRIOR AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS, IF ANY, RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF.  THESE CREDIT DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES.
ENTIRETY
[Signature pages follow]  
        This Amendment No. 2 to Five-Year Credit Agreement is executed as of the day and year first written above.
:                                                 ,
BORROWER
AUTOZONE, INC.
                                                                            a Nevada corporation
                                                                            By: 
/s/ Michael Archbold
                                                                            Name:  
  Michael Archbold
                                                                            Title:  
  SVP & CFO
                                                                            By: 
/s/ Harry L. Goldsmith
                                                                            Name: 
Harry L. Goldsmith
                                                                            Title: 
Sr. Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel
:                     ,
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
                                                                          in its capacity as Administrative Agent
   
                                                                            By: 
/s/ David Price
                                                                            Name: 
David Price
                                                                            Title: 
Vice President
,
:                                                        BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
LENDERS
                                                                            in its capacity as an L/C Issuer and as a Lender
 
                                                                            By: 
/s/ Dan M. Kilian
                                                                            Name: 
Dan M. Kilian
                                                                            Title: 
Managing Director
,
                                                                            SUNTRUST BANK
                                                                            in its capacity as an L/C Issuer and as a Lender
                                                                              By: 
/s/  Bryan W. Ford
                                                                            Name: 
Bryan W. Ford
                                                                            Title: 
Director
 
                                                                         
JP MORGAN CHASE BANK
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Barry K. Bergman
                                                                         Name:
Barry K. Bergman
                                                                         Title: 
Vice President
                                                                         
Bank One, NA
 
By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Catherine A. Muszynski
                                                                         Name:
Catherine A. Muszynski
                                                                         Title: 
Director
                                                                         
                                                                         
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Alexis Griffin
                                                                         Name:
Alexis Griffin
                                                                         Title: 
Vice President
                                                                       
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
 
By: 
                                                                       
/s/  David C. Judge
                                                                        Name:
David C. Judge
                                                                        Title: 
Senior Vice President
CITIBANK, N.A.
 
By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Robert J. Kane
                                                                         Name:
Robert J. Kane               __
                                                                         Title: 
Director
                                                                         
US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Amanda Smith
                                                                          Name:
Amanda Smith
                                                                          Title: 
Assistant Vice President
                                                                         
HIBERNIA NATIONAL BANK
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Michael R. Geissler
                                                                          Name:
Michael R. Geissler
                                                                          Title: 
Vice President
                                                                         
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  James W. Masters
                                                                          Name:
James W. Masters
                                                                          Title: 
Senior Vice President
                                                                         
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Thomas J. Purcell
                                                                          Name:
Thomas J. Purcell
                                                                          Title: 
Senior Vice President
                                                                         
MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA
                                                                           [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  D. Kevin Imlay
                                                                         Name:
D. Kevin Imlay
                                                                         Title: 
Senior Credit Officer
                                                                         
NATIONAL CITY BANK
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  James C. Ritchie
                                                                         Name:
James C. Ritchie
                                                                         Title: 
Vice President
                                                                         
UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Theresa L. Rocha
                                                                         Name:
Theresa L. Rocha
                                                                         Title: 
Vice President
                                                                         
UNION PLANTERS NATIONAL BANK
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Craig E. Gardella
                                                                         Name:
Craig E. Gardella
                                                                         Title: 
Senior Vice President
                                                                         
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                                                            [name of Lender]
  By: 
                                                                        
/s/  Anthony D. Braxton
                                                                         Name:
Anthony D. Braxton
                                                                         Title: 
Director
 
Schedule 1.1
APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE
       
The Applicable Percentage shall be based on the applicable Pricing Level corresponding to the Rating(s) then in effect.  In the event of a Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the higher Rating. In the event of a Double Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the Pricing Level which is one above that corresponding to the lower Rating.  If no Rating exists, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another Rating or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement.
As used herein:
        "" means the senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating of the Borrower, as published by S&P and/or Moody's.
Rating
          "" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are not more than one Pricing Level apart.
Split Rating
          "" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are two or more Pricing Levels apart.
Double Split Rating
 
Schedule 2.4
EXISTING LETTERS OF CREDIT
        Title:
Schedule 10.3(b)
FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE dated as of _______________, 200_ is entered into between ________________ ("") and ____________________ ("").
Assignor
Assignee
        Reference is made to the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of May 23, 2000, as amended and modified from time to time thereafter (the "") among AutoZone, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meanings.
Credit Agreement
        1.        The Assignor hereby sells and assigns, without recourse, to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, effective as of the Effective Date set forth below, the interests set forth below (the "") in the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, the interests set forth below in the Commitments and outstanding Loans of the Assignor on the effective date of the assignment designated below (the ""), together with unpaid Fees accrued on the assigned Commitments to the Effective Date and unpaid interest accrued on the assigned Loans to the Effective Date.  Each of the Assignor and the Assignee hereby makes and agrees to be bound by all the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 10.3(b) of the Credit Agreement, a copy of which has been received by the Assignee.  From and after the Effective Date (i) the Assignee, if it is not already a Lender under the Credit Agreement, shall be a party to and be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and, to the extent of the interests purchased and assumed by the Assignee under this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent of the interests sold and assigned by the Assignor under this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assigned Interest
Effective Date
        2.        This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
        3.        Terms of Assignment
        (a)        Date of Assignment:
        (b)        Legal Name of Assignor:
        (c)        Legal Name of Assignee:
        (d)        Effective Date of Assignment:
        (e)        Revolving Commitment of Assignee
                    after giving effect to this
                    Assignment and Acceptance as
                    of the Effective Date                                                            $_________________
          (f)        Revolving Commitment of Assignor
                    after giving effect to this
                    Assignment and Acceptance as
                    of the Effective Date                                                                $_________________
        (g)        Commitment Percentage of Assignee
                    after giving effect to this
                    Assignment and Acceptance
                    as of the Effective Date
                    (set forth to at least 8 decimals)                                                                                %
        (h)        Commitment Percentage of Assignor
                    after giving effect to this
                    Assignment and Acceptance
                    as of the Effective Date
                    (set forth to at least 8 decimals)                                                                                %
       4.        This Assignment and Acceptance shall be effective only upon consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, if applicable, delivery to the Administrative Agent of this Assignment and Acceptance together with the transfer fee payable pursuant to Section 10.3(b) in connection herewith and recordation in the Register pursuant to Section 10.3(b) of the terms hereof.
       5.        This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which where so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.  It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Assignment and Acceptance to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
The terms set forth above
are hereby agreed to:
  ____________________, as Assignor
By:
Name:
Title:
_____________________, as Assignee
By:
Name:
Title:
Notice address of Assignee:
                        <<Assignee>>
                        __________________________
                        __________________________
                        Attn:______________________
                        Telephone:  (___) ________
                        Telecopy:  (___) ________
Consented to and Accepted:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as
Administrative Agent
  By: _________________________________
        Title:
Consented to:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as
an L/C Issuer
  By: _________________________________
Consented to:
SUNTRUST BANK, as
an L/C Issuer
  By: _________________________________
        Title:
[Consented to:
AUTOZONE, INC.
By: _________________________________
        Title:]

AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of May 21, 2002
among
AUTOZONE, INC., as Borrower,
THE SEVERAL LENDERS FROM TIME TO TIME PARTY HERETO
and
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Administrative Agent
and
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Syndication Agent  
_____________________________________________________________________________
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.,
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
and
FLEET SECURITIES, INC.,
as
Lead Arrangers and Book Managers
with
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
CITIBANK, N.A.
and
SUNTRUST BANK
as Documentation Agents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SCHEDULES
          "" means either (i) a "person" or a "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of more than 50% of the then outstanding voting stock of the Borrower or (ii) a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower shall consist of individuals who are not Continuing Directors.  For purposes hereof, "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, (i) an individual who on the date two years prior to such determination date was a member of the Borrower's board of directors or (ii) (a) any director whose nomination for election by the Borrower's shareholders was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still inoffice who either were directors on the date two years priortosuch determination date or whose nomination for election was previously so approved (or who are Continuing Directors pursuant to clause (b) below) or (b) any director who was elected by a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date two years prior to such determination date or whose nomination for election was previously so approved (or who are Continuing Directors pursuant to clause (a) above).
AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
dated as of May 21, 2002 (the ""), is by and among , a Nevada corporation (the ""), the several lenders identified on the signature pages hereto and such other lenders as may from time to time become a party hereto (the ""), , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "") and , as syndication agent (in such capacity, the "").
        THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT
Credit Agreement
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
FLEET NATIONAL BANK
Administrative Agent
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK
Syndication Agent
W I T N E S S E T H
, the Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent are party to that Credit Agreement dated as of May 22, 2001 (the "");
        WHEREAS
Existing Credit Agreement
, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders extend the maturity of the term loan and the revolving loan facility available to the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement, and permit incremental increases in the amount of term loan, available to the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement, as more particularly described herein;
        WHEREAS
, the Lenders have agreed to make such changes to the existing credit facilities and to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
        WHEREAS
of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
        NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS
        1.1  .
Definitions
        As used in this Credit Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below unless the context otherwise requires:
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the heading hereof, together with any successors or assigns.
Administrative Agent
        "" means that certain letter agreement, dated as of April 29, 2002, between the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, as amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time.
Administrative Agent's Fee Letter
         "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(b).
Administrative Agent's Fees
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person (i) directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person or (ii) directly or indirectly owning or holding five percent (5%) or more of the equity interest in such Person.  For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "" means Fleet National Bank, 100 Federal StreetMADE10307C Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services.
Agency Services Address
,
,
          "" means, for purposes of calculating the applicable interest rate for any day for any Loan (other than a Competitive Loan or a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan), the applicable rate of the Facility Fee for any day for purposes of Section 3.5(a) or the applicable rate of the Utilization Fee for any day for the purposes of Section 3.5(c), the appropriate applicable percentage set forth on .  The Applicable Percentages shall be determined and adjusted on the following dates (each a ""):
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 1.1
Calculation Date
        (i)  where the Borrower has a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt of notice by the Administrative Agent of a change in any such debt rating, based on such debt rating(s); and
          (ii)  where the Borrower previously had a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, but either or both of S&P and Moody's withdraws its rating such that the Borrower's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt no longer is rated by either S&P or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Administrative Agent of notice of the withdrawal of the last to exist of such previous debt ratings, based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another rating for such debt of the Borrower or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement.
The Applicable Percentage shall be effective from a Calculation Date until the next such Calculation Date.  The Administrative Agent shall determine the appropriate Applicable Percentages promptly upon receipt of the notices and information necessary to make such determination and shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change thereof.  Such determinations by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Applicable Percentage from the Closing Date shall be based on Pricing Level II, subject to adjustment as provided herein.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(c).
Approving Lenders
 
        "" means the Bankruptcy Code in Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Bankruptcy Code
          "" means, with respect to any Person, the occurrence of any of the following with respect to such Person: (i) a court or governmental agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of such Person in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs; or (ii) there shall be commenced against such Person an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or any case, proceeding or other action for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such involuntary case or other case, proceeding or other action shall remain undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days; or (iii) such Person shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (iv) such Person shall be unable to, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts generally as they become due.
Bankruptcy Event
         "" means, for any day, the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) equal to the greater of (a) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day  of 1% or (b) the Prime Rate in effect on such day.  If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable after due inquiry to ascertain the Federal Funds Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms hereof, the Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (a) of the first sentence of this definition until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist.  Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate, respectively.
Base Rate
plus
          "" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
          "" means the Person identified as such in the heading hereof, together with any permitted successors and assigns.
Borrower
         "" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are authorized or required by law to close, , when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, such day shall also be a day on which dealings between banks are carried on in U.S. dollar deposits in London, England and New York, New York.
Business Day
exceptthat
         "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Applicable Percentage.
Calculation Date
         "" means, as applied to any Person, any lease of any Property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP, is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person.
Capital Lease
Change of Control
        "" means the date hereof.
Closing Date
        "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations issued thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time.  References to sections of the Code shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
Code
        " means any agreement between the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and an entity that purchases such Person's commercial accounts receivables with only such limited recourse back to such Person as is customary in factoring arrangements of this type.
Commercial Credit Business Arrangement"
        "" means (i) with respect to each Lender, the Revolving Commitment and/or the Term Loan Commitment of such Lender and (ii) with respect to the Swingline Lender, the Swingline Commitment.
Commitment
        "" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan pursuant to the terms of Section 2.2.
Competitive Bid
        "" means, as to any Competitive Bid made by a Lender in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.2, the fixed rate of interest offered by the Lender making the Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
        "" means a loan made by a Lender in its discretion pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2.
Competitive Loan
        "" means a promissory note of the Borrower in favor of a Lender delivered pursuant to Section 2.2(f) and evidencing the Competitive Loans, if any, of such Lender, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, restated or replaced from time to time.
Competitive Note
        "" means, at any time, the sum of, without duplication, (i) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness and (ii) the product of Consolidated Rents multiplied by 6.0.
Consolidated Adjusted Debt
        "" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Consolidated Net Income Consolidated Interest Expense all provisions for any Federal, state or other domestic and foreign income taxes depreciation and amortization, in each case on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
plus
plus
        "" means, for any period, the sum of Consolidated EBITDA and Consolidated Rents.  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated EBITDAR
        "" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Consolidated EBITDA depreciation and amortization Consolidated Rents, in each case on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated EBITR
minus
plus
        "" means, at any time, the outstanding principal amount of all Funded Indebtedness, without duplication, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such time.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
        "" means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the ratio of (i) Consolidated EBITR to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense Consolidated Rents.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
plus
        "" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, all interest expense the interest component under Capital Leases, in each case on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated Interest Expense
plus
        "" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, net income on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, but excluding non-recurring charges in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 collectively with respect to all periods relevant for the calculation of the financial covenants contained in Sections 6.10 and 6.11.  Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated Net Income
        "" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, all rental expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period under operating leases (specifically including rents paid in connection with synthetic leases, tax retention operating leases, off-balance sheet loans or similar off-balance sheet financing products), on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated Rents
        "" means a collective reference to this Credit Agreement, the Notes, the Administrative Agent's Fee Letter and all other related agreements and documents issued or delivered hereunder or thereunder or pursuant hereto or thereto.
Credit Documents
        "" means any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(e).
Designating Lender
        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(c).
Disapproving Lenders
        "" and "" means dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
        "" means any and all lawful and applicable Federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes.
Environmental Laws
        "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time.  References to sections of ERISA shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
ERISA
        "" means an entity which is under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA, or is a member of a group which includes the Borrower and which is treated as a single employer under Sections 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
        "" means (i) with respect to any Plan, the occurrence of a Reportable Event or the substantial cessation of operations (within the meaning of Section 4062(e) of ERISA); (ii) the withdrawal by the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), or the termination of a Multiple Employer Plan; (iii) the distribution of a notice of intent to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) or 4041A of ERISA; (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan by the PBGC under Section 4042 of ERISA; (v) any event or condition which could reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (vi) the complete or partial withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan; (vii) the conditions for imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA exist with respect to any Plan; or (vii) the adoption of an amendment to any Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA.
ERISA Event
        "" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Loan
        "" means, for the Interest Period for each Eurodollar Loan comprising part of the same borrowing (including conversions, extensions and renewals), a per annum interest rate determined pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
                    Eurodollar Rate    =     
Interbank Offered Rate
                                                        1 - Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 
      "" means for any day, that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect from time to time under Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor), as such regulation may be amended from time to time or any successor regulation, as the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any basic, supplemental, emergency, special, or marginal reserves) applicable with respect to Eurocurrency liabilities as that term is defined in Regulation D (or against any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate of Eurodollar Loans is determined), whether or not Lender has any Eurocurrency liabilities subject to such reserve requirement at that time.  Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute Eurocurrency liabilities and as such shall be deemed subject to reserve requirements without benefits of credits for proration, exceptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to a Lender.  The Eurodollar Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
         "" means such term as defined in Section 8.1.
Event of Default
          "" means that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2000, by and among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, as amended, modified, supplemented, restated or replaced from time to time.
Existing Five-Year Credit Agreement
         "" means the revolving loan facility established pursuant to the Existing Five-Year Credit Agreement.
Existing Five-Year Facility
          "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(a).
Facility Fee
          "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(a).
Facility Fee Calculation Period
         "" means, for any day, the rate of interest per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day, that (A) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day and (B) if no such rate is so published on such next preceding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate quoted to the Administrative Agent on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
         "" means all fees payable pursuant to Section 3.5.
Fees
        "" means, with respect to the Borrower, the Treasurer, the Controller, the General Counsel, or the Chief Financial Officer of the Borrower; that the Borrower may designate additional persons or delete persons so authorized by written notice to the Administrative Agent from at least two existing Financial Officers of the Borrower.
Financial Officer
provided
        " " means Fleet National Bank and its successors.
Fleet
        "" means, with respect to any Person (for purposes of this sentence only, the ""), without duplication, (i) all Indebtedness of such Debtor for borrowed money, (ii) all purchase money Indebtedness of such Debtor, including without limitation the principal portion of all obligations of such Debtor under Capital Leases, (iii) all Guaranty Obligations of such Debtor with respect to Funded Indebtedness of another Person, (iv) the maximum available amount of all standby letters of credit or acceptances issued or created for the account of such Debtor, and (v) all Funded Indebtedness of another Person secured by a Lien on any Property of such Debtor, whether or not such Funded Indebtedness has been assumed; that Funded Indebtedness shall not include (i) any letters of credit used by such Debtor for the financing of inventory in the ordinary course of business or (ii) any amounts received by such Debtor pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement.  The Funded Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Funded Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or joint venturer.
Funded Indebtedness
Debtor
provided
        "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and subject to the terms of Section 1.3 hereof.
GAAP
        "" means any Federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory body.
Governmental Authority
        "" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, any obligations of such Person (other than endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) guaranteeing or intended to guarantee any Indebtedness of any other Person in any manner, whether direct or indirect, and including without limitation any obligation, whether or not contingent, (i) to purchase any such Indebtedness or any Property constituting security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds or other support for the payment or purchase of any such Indebtedness or to maintain working capital, solvency or other balance sheet condition of such other Person (including without limitation keep well agreements, maintenance agreements, comfort letters or similar agreements or arrangements) for the benefit of any holder of Indebtedness of such other Person, (iii) to lease or purchase Property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the holder of such Indebtedness, or (iv) to otherwise assure or hold harmless the holder of such Indebtedness against loss in respect thereof.  The amount of any Guaranty Obligation hereunder shall (subject to any limitations set forth therein) be deemed to be an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount (or maximum principal amount, if larger) of the Indebtedness in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made.
Guaranty Obligations
        "" of any Person means (i) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, or upon which interest payments are customarily made, (iii) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to Property purchased by such Person (other than customary reservations or retentions of title under agreements with suppliers entered into in the ordinary course of business), (iv) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of Property or services purchased by such Person (other than trade debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and due within six months of the incurrence thereof) which would appear as liabilities on a balance sheet of such Person, (v) all obligations of such Person under take-or-pay or similar arrangements or under commodities agreements, (vi) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on, or payable out of the proceeds of production from, Property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (vii) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person, (viii) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under Capital Leases, (ix) all obligations of such Person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements, commodity purchase or option agreements or other interest or exchange rate or commodity price hedging agreements, (x) the maximum amount of all standby letters of credit issued or bankers' acceptances facilities created for the account of such Person and, without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder (to the extent unreimbursed), (xi) all preferred stock issued by such Person and required by the terms thereof to be redeemed, or for which mandatory sinking fund payments are due, by a fixed date and (xii) the principal balance outstanding under any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product to which such Person is a party, where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP; that Indebtedness shall not include (i) any letters of credit used by such Person for the financing of inventory in the ordinary course of business or (ii) any amounts received by such Person pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement.  The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer.
Indebtedness
provided
        "" means, for the Interest Period for each Eurodollar Loan comprising part of the same borrowing (including conversions, extensions and renewals), a per annum interest rate (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) equal to the rate of interest, determined by the Administrative Agent on the basis of the offered rates for deposits in dollars for a period of time corresponding to such Interest Period (and commencing on the first day of such Interest Period), appearing on Telerate Page 3750 (or, if, for any reason, Telerate Page 3750 is not available, the Reuters Screen LIBO Page) as of approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two (2) Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period; , , if no such interest rate for a period of time corresponding to such Interest Period appears on Telerate Page 3750 or the Reuters Screen LIBO Page, then the applicable interest rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent in good faith.  As used herein, "Telerate Page 3750" means the display designated as page 3750 by Dow Jones Telerate, Inc. (or such other page as may replace such page on that service for the purpose of displaying the British Bankers Association London interbank offered rates) and "Reuters Screen LIBO Page" means the display designated as page "LIBO" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the LIBO page on that service for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks).
Interbank Offered Rate
provided
however
        "" means (i) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, the date of repayment of principal of such Loan and the Termination Date and (ii) as to any Eurodollar Loan, any Competitive Loan or any Swingline Loan, the last day of each Interest Period for such Loan, the date of repayment of principal of such Loan and on the Termination Date, and in addition where the applicable Interest Period is more than 3 months, then also on the date 3 months from the beginning of the Interest Period, and each 3 months thereafter.  If an Interest Payment Date falls on a date which is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deemed to be the next succeeding Business Day, in the case of Eurodollar Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day.
Interest Payment Date
except
that
        "" means (i) as to any Eurodollar Loan, a period of one, two, three or six month's duration, as the Borrower may elect, commencing in each case, on the date of the borrowing (including conversions, extensions and renewals), (ii) as to any Competitive Loan, a period commencing in each case on the date of the borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid whereby the offer to make such Competitive Loan was extended (such ending date in any event to be no less than one week and not more than 180 days from the date of the borrowing) and (iii) as to any Swingline Loan, a period commencing in each case on the date of the borrowing and ending on the date agreed by the Borrower and the Swingline Lender in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3(b)(i) (such ending date in any event to be not more than seven (7) Business Days from the date of borrowing); , , (A) if any Interest Period would end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day), (B) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Termination Date, and (C) in the case of Eurodollar Loans, where an Interest Period begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which the Interest Period is to end, such Interest Period shall end on the last day of such calendar month.
Interest Period
provided
however
        "" means each of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, and each Person which may become a Lender by way of assignment in accordance with the terms hereof, together with their successors and permitted assigns.
Lenders
        "" means, with respect to a Lender or the Administrative Agent, any office, branch, subsidiary or affiliate of such Lender or the Administrative Agent.
Lending Installation
        "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise), preference, priority or charge of any kind (including any agreement to give any of the foregoing, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing or similar statement or notice filed under the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted and in effect in the relevant jurisdiction or other similar recording or notice statute, and any lease in the nature thereof).
Lien
        "" or "" means the Term Loan (or any Base Rate Loan or Eurodollar Loan constituting a portion thereof), the Revolving Loans, the Competitive Loans and/or the Swingline Loans (or any Swingline Loan bearing interest at the Base Rate or the Quoted Rate and referred to as a Base Rate Loan or a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan), individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Loan
Loans
        "" means such account as may be identified by written notice from at least two Financial Officers of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent.
Master Account
        "" means a material adverse effect on (i) the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, business, assets or liabilities of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (ii) the ability of the Borrower to perform any material obligation under the Credit Documents or (iii) any aspect of the Borrower or its business that adversely affects the material rights and remedies of the Lenders under the Credit Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
        "" means any gasoline or petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum products or any hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, defined or regulated as such in or under any Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and urea-formaldehyde insulation.
Materials of Environmental Concern
        "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such company in the business of rating securities.
Moody's
        "" means a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Sections 3(37) or 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
        "" means a Plan which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one employer other than the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate are contributing sponsors.
Multiple Employer Plan
        "" or "" means any Revolving Note, Swingline Note, Competitive Note and/or Term Note, as the context may require.
Note
Notes
        "" means a written notice of borrowing in substantially the form of , as required by Section 2.1(b)(i).
Notice of Borrowing
Schedule 2.1(b)(i)
        "" means the written notice of extension or conversion in substantially the form of , as required by Section 3.2.
Notice of Extension/Conversion
Schedule 3.2
        "" means, the extension of credit by a Lender by way of a purchase of a participation in any Swingline Loans as provided in Section 2.3(b)(iii) or in any Loans as provided in Section 3.13.
Participation Interest
        "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA and any successor thereof.
PBGC
        "" means:
Permitted Liens
        (i)        Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders;
        (ii)        Liens (other than Liens created or imposed under ERISA) for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due or Liens for taxes being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof);
         (iii)        statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and suppliers and other Liens imposed by law or pursuant to customary reservations or retentions of title arising in the ordinary course of business, that any such Liens which are material secure only amounts not yet due and payable or, if due and payable, are unfiled and no other action has been taken to enforce the same or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof);
provided
         (iv)        Liens (other than Liens created or imposed under ERISA) incurred or deposits made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other types of social security, or to secure the performance of tenders, statutory obligations, bids, leases, government contracts, performance and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations (exclusive of obligations for the payment of borrowed money);
         (v)        Liens in connection with attachments or judgments (including judgment or appeal bonds) that the judgments secured shall, within 30 days after the entry thereof, have been discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or shall have been discharged within 30 days after the expiration of any such stay;
provided
         (vi)        easements, rights-of-way, restrictions (including zoning restrictions), minor defects or irregularities in title and other similar charges or encumbrances not, in any material respect, impairing the use of the encumbered Property for its intended purposes;
         (vii)        leases or subleases granted to others not interfering in any material respect with the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
        (viii)        Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
        (ix)        Liens on assets at the time such assets are acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in accordance with Section 7.3(d); that such Liens are not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
provided
        (x)        Liens on assets of any Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary in accordance with Section 7.3(d); that such Liens are not created in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
provided
        (xi)        normal and customary rights of setoff upon deposits of cash in favor of banks or other depository institutions;
        (xii)        Liens on receivables sold pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement;
        (xiii)        Liens on inventory held by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under consignment;
        (xiv)        Liens on any inventory of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in favor of a vendor of such inventory, arising in the normal course of business upon its sale to the Borrower or any such Subsidiary; and
        (xv)        other Liens on Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, so long as the Borrower and its Subsidiaries own at all times Property (a) unencumbered by any Liens other than Liens permitted by clauses (i) through (xiv) above and (b), having an aggregate fair market value of at least $2,000,000,000.
        "" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise (whether or not incorporated) or any Governmental Authority.
Person
        "" means any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is covered by ERISA and with respect to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" within the meaning of Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
        "" means the applicable pricing level for the Applicable Percentage shown in .
Pricing Level
Schedule 1.1
        "" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced or established from time to time by Fleet as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in Boston, Massachusetts, with each change in the Prime Rate being effective on the date such change is publicly announced as effective (it being understood and agreed that the Prime Rate is a reference rate used by Fleet in determining interest rates on certain loans and is not intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged on any extension of credit by Fleet to any debtor).
Prime Rate
        "" means any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible.
Property
        "" means, with respect to any Quoted Rate Swingline Loan, the fixed percentage rate per annum offered by the Swingline Lender and accepted by the Borrower with respect to such Swingline Loan as provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3.
Quoted Rate
        "" means a Swingline Loan bearing interest at a Quoted Rate.
Quoted Rate Swingline Loan
        "" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 10.3(c).
Register
        "" means Regulation D, T, U or X, respectively, of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor to all or a portion thereof.
Regulation D, T, U, or X
        "" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into the environment (including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers and other closed receptacles containing any Materials of Environmental Concern).
Release
        "" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the notice requirement has been waived by regulation.
Reportable Event
        "" means, at any time, Lenders which are then in compliance with their obligations hereunder (as determined by the Administrative Agent) and holding in the aggregate at least 51% of (i) the Revolving Commitments and the outstanding Term Loan (and Participation Interests therein) or (ii) if the Commitments have been terminated, the outstanding Loans and Participation Interests.
Required Lenders
        "" means, as to any Person, the certificate of incorporation and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its material property is subject.
Requirement of Law
        "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 2.1(a) (as such amount may be reduced or increased from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement), (i) to make Revolving Loans in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.1(a) and (ii) to purchase participation interests in the Swingline Loans in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3(b)(iii).
Revolving Commitment
        "" means for any Lender, the percentage identified as its Revolving Commitment Percentage on , as such percentage may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.3.
Revolving Commitment Percentage
Schedule 2.1(a)
        " shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.1(a).
Revolving Committed Amount"
        "" means a collective reference to (i) the revolving loan facility established pursuant to Section 2.1 and (ii) the Existing Five-Year Facility.
Revolving Facilities
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.1(a).
Revolving Loans
        "" means a promissory note of the Borrower in favor of a Lender delivered pursuant to Section 2.1(e) and evidencing the Revolving Loans of such Lender, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, restated or replaced from time to time.
Revolving Note
        "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such division in the business of rating securities.
S&P
        "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(e).
SPV
        "" means any Plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but which is not a Multiemployer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
        "" means, as to any Person, (a) any corporation more than 50% of whose stock of any class or classes having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time, any class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries, and (b) any partnership, association, joint venture or other entity in which such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries has more than 50% equity interest at any time.
Subsidiary
        "" means the commitment of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Loans in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding of up to the Swingline Committed Amount.
Swingline Commitment
        "' shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.3(a).
Swingline Committed Amount
        "" means Fleet National Bank.
Swingline Lender
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.3(a).
Swingline Loan
        "" means the promissory note of the Borrower in favor of the Swingline Lender substantially in the form of , as such promissory note may be amended, modified, restated or replaced from time to time.
Swingline Note
Schedule 2.3(d)
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the heading hereof together with any successors and assigns.
Syndication Agent
        "" means (i) as to the Revolving Loans, Swingline Loans and Competitive Loans, May 20, 2003, as such date may be extended pursuant to Section 3.4 and (ii) as to the Term Loan, November 22, 2004.
Termination Date
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.4(a).
Term Loan
        "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make its portion of the Term Loan in a principal amount equal to such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage (if any) of the Term Loan.
Term Loan Commitment
        "" means for any Lender, the percentage identified as its Term Loan Commitment Percentage on , as such percentage may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.3.
Term Loan Commitment Percentage
Schedule 2.1(a)
        "" means a promissory note of the Borrower in favor of a Lender delivered pursuant to Section 2.4(e) and evidencing the portion of the Term Loan made by such Lender, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, restated or replaced from time to time.
Term Note
        "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(c).
Utilization Fee
        "" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(c).
Utilization Fee Period
        1.2  .
Computation of Time Periods
        For purposes of computation of periods of time hereunder, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding."
        1.3  .
Accounting Terms
        Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  All calculations made for the purposes of determining compliance with this Credit Agreement shall (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) be made by application of GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof (or. prior to the delivery of the first financial statements pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof, consistent with the financial statements as at August 27, 2001; , , if (a) the Borrower shall object to determining such compliance on such basis at the time of delivery of such financial statements due to any change in GAAP or the rules promulgated with respect thereto or (b) the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall so object in writing within 30 days after delivery of such financial statements, then such calculations shall be made on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered by the Borrower to the Lenders as to which no such objection shall have been made.
provided
however
SECTION 2
CREDIT FACILITIES
        2.1    .
Revolving Loans
            (a)  .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make available to the Borrower revolving credit loans requested by the Borrower in Dollars ("") up to such Lender's Revolving Commitment from time to time from the Closing Date until the Termination Date, or such earlier date as the Revolving Commitments shall have been terminated as provided herein for the purposes hereinafter set forth; , , that the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans shall not exceed (as such aggregate maximum amount may be reduced from time to time as provided in Sections 3.3 and 3.4, the ""); , , (i) with regard to each Lender individually, such Lender's outstanding Revolving Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Revolving Commitment, and (ii) with regard to the Lenders collectively, the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall not exceed the Revolving Committed Amount.  Revolving Loans may consist of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans, or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request, and may be repaid and reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof; , , that no more than 25 Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any time.  For purposes hereof, Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans, even if they begin on the same date, although borrowings, extensions and conversions may, in accordance with the provisions hereof, be combined at the end of existing Interest Periods to constitute a new EurodollarLoan with a single Interest Period.  Revolving Loans hereunder may be repaid and reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Revolving Commitment
Revolving Loans
provided
however
THREE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($300,000,000.00)
Revolving Committed Amount
provided
further
plus
plus
provided
however
                    (b)        .
Revolving Loan Borrowings
            (i)  .  The Borrower shall request a Revolving Loan borrowing by written notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing) to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:30 A.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the Business Day of the requested borrowing in the case of Base Rate Loans, and not later than 2:00 P.M.(Boston, Massachusetts time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the requested borrowing in the case of Eurodollar Loans.  Each such request for borrowing shall be irrevocable, executed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower and shall specify (A) that a Revolving Loan is requested, (B) the date of the requested borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (C) the aggregate principal amount to be borrowed, and (D) whether the borrowing shall be comprised of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Loans or a combination thereof, and if Eurodollar Loans are requested, the Interest Period(s) therefor.  If the Borrower shall fail to specify in any such Notice of Borrowing (I) an applicable Interest Period in the case of a Eurodollar Loan, then such notice shall be deemed to be a request for an Interest Period of one month, or (II) the type of Revolving Loan requested, then such notice shall be deemed to be a request for a Base Rate Loan hereunder.  The Administrative Agent shall give notice to each affected Lender promptly upon receipt of each Notice of Borrowing pursuant to this Section 2.1(b)(i), the contents thereof and each such Lender's share of any borrowing to be made pursuant thereto.
Notice of Borrowing
            (ii)  .  Each Eurodollar Loan or Base Rate Loan that is a Revolving Loan shall be in a minimum aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or the remaining amount of the Revolving Committed Amount, if less).
Minimum Amounts
             (iii) .  Each Lender will make its Revolving Commitment Percentage of each Revolving Loan borrowing available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Borrower as specified in , or in such other manner as the Administrative Agent may specify in writing, by 1:00 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the date specified in the applicable Notice of Borrowing in Dollars and in funds immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  Such borrowing will then be made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent by crediting the Master Account with the aggregate of the amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by the Lenders and in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Advances
Section 3.14(a)
          (c)  .  The principal amount of all Revolving Loans shall be due and payable in full on the Termination Date, subject to the provisions of Sections 3.4(c) and (d).
Repayment
(d) .  Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1,
Interest
            (i)  .  During such periods as Revolving Loans shall be comprised in whole or in part of Base Rate Loans, such Base Rate Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Percentage; and
Base Rate Loans
plus
          (ii)  .  During such periods as Revolving Loans shall be comprised in whole or in part of Eurodollar Loans, such Eurodollar Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate the Applicable Percentage.
Eurodollar Loans
plus
          Interest on Revolving Loans shall be payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein).
         (e)  .  The Revolving Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to such Lender in an original principal amount equal to such Lender's Revolving Commitment and in substantially the form of .
Revolving
Notes
Schedule 2.1(e)
          2.2 .
Competitive Loan Subfacility
        (a)  .  Subject to the terms and conditions and relying upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Borrower may, from time to time from the Closing Date until the Termination Date, request and each Lender may, in its sole discretion, agree to make, Competitive Loans in Dollars to the Borrower; , , that (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans shall not at any time exceed the Revolving Committed Amount, and (ii) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall not at any time exceed the Revolving Committed Amount.  Each Competitive Loan shall be not less than $10,000,000 in the aggregate and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or the remaining portion of the Revolving Committed Amount, if less).
Competitive Loans
provided
however
plus
plus
         (b)  .  The Borrower may solicit by making a written or telefax request to all of the Lenders for a Competitive Loan.  To be effective, such request must be received by each of the Lenders by 2:00 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time)one Business Day prior to the date of the requested borrowing and must specify (i) that a Competitive Loan is requested, (ii) the amount of such Competitive Loan and (iii) the Interest Period for such Competitive Loan.
Competitive Bid Requests
         (c)  .  Upon receipt of a request by the Borrower for a Competitive Loan, each Lender may, in its sole discretion, submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make a Competitive Loan in an amount up to the amount specified in the related request for Competitive Loans.  Such Competitive Bid shall be submitted to the Borrower by telephone notice (to be immediately confirmed by telecopy) no later than 10:30 A.M. Boston, Massachusetts time) on the date of the requested Competitive Loan.  Competitive Bids so made shall be irrevocable.  Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the date of the proposed Competitive Loan, (ii) the maximum and minimum principal amounts of the Competitive Loan for which such offer is being made (which may be for all or a part of (but not more than) the amount requested by the Borrower), (iii) the applicable Competitive Bid Rate, and (iv) the applicable Interest Period.
Competitive Bids
(
         (d)  .  The Borrower may, before 1:00 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the date of the requested Competitive Loan, accept any Competitive Bid by giving the applicable Lender and the Administrative Agent telephone notice (immediately confirmed in writing) of (i) the Lender or Lenders whose Competitive Bid(s) is/are accepted, (ii) the principal amount of the Competitive Bid(s) so accepted and (iii) the Interest Period of the Competitive Bid(s) so accepted.  The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part; provided, however, that (a) the principal amount of each Competitive Loan may not exceed the maximum amount offered in the Competitive Bid and may not be less than the minimum amount offered in the Competitive Bid, (b) the principal amount of each Competitive Loan may not exceed the total amount requested pursuant to subsection (a) above, (c) the Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if it has decided to reject a Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate and (d) if the Borrower shall accept a Competitive Bid or Bids made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate but the amount of such Competitive Bid or Bids shall cause the total amount of Competitive Bids to be accepted by the Borrower to exceed the total amount requested pursuant to subsection (a) above, then the Borrower shall accept a portion of such Competitive Bid or Bids in an amount equal to the total amount requested pursuant to subsection (a) above less the amount of other Competitive Bids accepted with respect to such request, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with each such Competitive Bid at such Competitive Bid Rate.  Competitive Bids so accepted by the Borrower shall be irrevocable.
Acceptance of Competitive Bids
 
        (e)  .  Upon acceptance by the Borrower pursuant to subsection (d) above of all or a portion of any Lender's Competitive Bid, such Lender shall, before such time as determined by such Lender in accordance with such Lender's customary practices, on the date of the requested Competitive Loan, make such Competitive Loan available by crediting the Master Account with the amount of such Competitive Loan.
Funding of Competitive Loans
        (f)  .  The Competitive Loans of each Lender shall be evidenced by a single Competitive Note duly executed on behalf of the Borrower, dated the date hereof, in substantially the form of , payable to the order of such Lender.
Competitive Notes
Schedule 2.2(f)
         (g)  .  The Borrower shall repay to each Lender which has made a Competitive Loan on the last day of the Interest Period for such Competitive Loan the then unpaid principal amount of such Competitive Loan.  Unless the Borrower shall repay the maturing Competitive Loan or give to notice to the Administrative Agent of its intent to otherwise repay such Loan not later than 11:30 A.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the last day of the Interest Period, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Loan advance comprised of Base Rate Loans in the amount of the maturing Competitive Loan, the proceeds of which will be used to repay such Competitive Loan.
Repayment of Competitive Loans
         (h)  .  The Borrower shall pay interest to each Lender on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan from and including the date of such Competitive Loan to but excluding the stated maturity date thereof, at the applicable Competitive Bid Rate for such Competitive Loan (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days).  Interest on Competitive Loans shall be payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein).
Interest on Competitive Loans
         (i)  .  The Borrower shall not request a Competitive Loan if, assuming the maximum amount of Competitive Loans so requested is borrowed as of the date of such request, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans would exceed the aggregate Revolving Committed Amount.
Limitation on Number of Competitive Loans
         (j)  .  The Borrower and the Lenders hereby agree that, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary contained in this Credit Agreement, upon mutual agreement of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and written notice by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders, all further requests by the Borrower for Competitive Loans shall be made by the Borrower to the Lenders through the Administrative Agent in accordance with such procedures as shall be prescribed by the Administrative Agent and acceptable to the Borrower and each Lender.
Change in Procedures for Requesting Competitive Loans
2.3    .
Swingline Loan Subfacility
 
        (a)  .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Swingline Lender, in its individual capacity, agrees to make certain revolving credit loans requested by the Borrower in Dollars to the Borrower (each a "" and, collectively, the "") from time to time from the Closing Date until the Termination Date for the purposes hereinafter set forth; , , (i) the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans outstanding at any time shall not exceed (the ""), and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall not exceed the Revolving Committed Amount.  Swingline Loans hereunder shall be made as Base Rate Loans or Quoted Rate Swingline Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.3, and may be repaid and reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Swingline Commitment
Swingline Loan
Swingline Loans
provided
however
FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS
($50,000,000.00)
Swingline Committed Amount
plus
plus
         (b)  .
Swingline Loan Advances
        (i)  .  Whenever the Borrower desires a Swingline Loan advance hereunder it shall give written notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing) to the Swingline Lender not later than 2:00 P.M.(Boston, Massachusetts time) on the Business Day of the requested Swingline Loan advance.  Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify (A) that a Swingline Loan advance is requested, (B) the date of the requested Swingline Loan advance (which shall be a Business Day) and (C) the principal amount of the Swingline Loan advance requested.  Each Swingline Loan shall be made as a Base Rate Loan or a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan and shall have such maturity date as the Swingline Lender and the Borrower shall agree upon receipt by the Swingline Lender of any such notice from the Borrower.  The Swingline Lender shall initiate the transfer of funds representing the Swingline Loan advance to the Master Account by 3:30 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the Business Day of the requested borrowing.
Notices; Disbursement
         (ii)  .  Each Swingline Loan advance shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 and in integral multiples of $500,000 in excess thereof (or the remaining amount of the Swingline Committed Amount, if less).
Minimum Amounts
         (iii)  .  The principal amount of all Swingline Loans shall be due and payable on the earlier of (A) the maturity date agreed to by the Swingline Lender and the Borrower with respect to such Loan (which maturity date shall not be a date more than seven (7) Business Days from the date of advance thereof) or (B) the Termination Date.  The Swingline Lender may, at any time, in its sole discretion, by written notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, demand repayment of its Swingline Loans by way of a Revolving Loan advance, in which case the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Loan advance comprised solely of Base Rate Loans in the amount of such Swingline Loans; , , that any such demand shall be deemed to have been given one Business Day prior to the Termination Date and on the date of the occurrence of any Event of Default described in Section 8.1 and upon acceleration of the indebtedness hereunder and the exercise of remedies in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.2.  Each Lender hereby irrevocably agrees to make its pro rata share of each such Revolving Loan in the amount, in the manner and on the date specified in the preceding sentence (I) the amount of such borrowing may not comply with the minimum amount for advances of Revolving Loans otherwise required hereunder, (II) whether any conditions specified in Section 4.2 are then satisfied, (III) whether a Default or an Event of Default then exists, (IV) failure of any such request or deemed request for Revolving Loan to be made by the time otherwise required hereunder, (V) whether the date of such borrowing is a date on which Revolving Loans are otherwise permitted to be made hereunder or (VI) any termination of the Commitments relating thereto immediately prior to or contemporaneously with such borrowing.  In the event that any Revolving Loan cannot for any reason be made on the date otherwise required above (including, without limitation, as a result of the commencement of a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code with respect to the Borrower), then each Lender hereby agrees that it shall forthwith purchase (as of the date such borrowing would otherwise have occurred, but adjusted for any payments received from the Borrower on or after such date and prior to such purchase) from the Swingline Lender such participations in the outstanding Swingline Loans as shall be necessary to cause each such Lender to share in such Swingline Loans ratably based upon its Revolving Commitment Percentage (determined before giving effect to any termination of the Commitments pursuant to Section 3.4), that (A) all interest payable on the Swingline Loans shall be for the account of the Swingline Lender until the date as of which the respective participation is purchased and (B) at the time any purchase of participations pursuant to this sentence is actually made, the purchasing Lender shall be required to pay to the Swingline Lender, to the extent not paid to the Swingline Lender by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of subsection (c)(ii) hereof, interest on the principal amount of participation purchased for each day from and including the day upon which such borrowing would otherwise have occurred to but excluding the date of payment for such participation, at the rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate.
Repayment of Swingline Loans
provided
however
notwithstanding
provided
        (c)      .
Interest on Swingline Loans
        (i)      Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1, each Swingline Loan shall bear interest as follows:
        (A)  .  If such Swingline Loan is a Base Rate Loan, at a per annum rate (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 days) equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Percentage.
Base Rate Loans
plus
        (B)  .  If such Swingline Loan is a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan, at a per annum rate (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days) equal to the Quoted Rate applicable thereto.
Quoted Rate Swingline Loans
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary set forth in this Credit Agreement, in the event that the principal amount of any Quoted Rate Swingline Loan is not repaid on the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan, then such Loan shall be automatically converted into a Base Rate Loan at the end of such Interest Period.
         (ii)  .  Interest on Swingline Loans shall be payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein).
Payment of Interest
        (d)  .  The Swingline Loans shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to the Swingline Lender in an original principal amount equal to the Swingline Committed Amount substantially in the form of .
Swingline Note
Schedule 2.3(d)
 
2.4       
Term Loan
            (a)        .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein, each Lender severally made available to the Borrower on May 22, 2001 such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage of a term loan in Dollars in the aggregate principal amount of (as such term loan may be increased pursuant to Section 2.4(f), the "").  The Term Loan may consist of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans, or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request; , , that no more than 8Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any time (it being understood that, for purposes hereof, Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans, even if they begin on the same date, although borrowings, extensions and conversions may, in accordance with the provisions hereof, be combined at the end of existing Interest Periods to constitute a new Eurodollar Loan with a single Interest Period).  Amounts repaid on the Term Loan may not be reborrowed.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to simplify administrative issues and most efficiently re-allocate the Term Loan among Lenders according to their Term Loan Commitments as of the Closing Date, the $200,000,000 Term Loan funded on May 22, 2001 may be repaid by the Borrower on or before the Closing Date and re-advanced to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days of the Closing Date.  Accordingly, in the event the $200,000,000 Term Loan funded on May 22, 2001 is in fact repaid by the Borrower on or before the Closing Date, each Lender severally agrees to make available to the Borrower on the Closing Date such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage of a new Term Loan in the aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000.00 (and, if applicable, to fund its Incremental Term Loan Commitment, if any, pursuant to Section 2.4(f)).
Term Loan Commitment
TWO-HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
($200,000,000.00)
Term Loan
provided
however
            (b)  .  Each Eurodollar Loan or Base Rate Loan that is part of the Term Loan shall be in an aggregate principal amount that is not less than $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 (or the then remaining principal balance of the Term Loan, if less).
Minimum Amounts
              (c) .  The entire unpaid principal amount of the Term Loan shall be due and payable in full on the Termination Date.
Repayment of Term Loan
             (d) .  Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1:
Interest
        (i)  .  During such periods as the Term Loan shall be comprised in whole or in part of Base Rate Loans, such Base Rate Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Percentage; and
Base Rate Loans
 
        (ii)  .  During such periods as the Term Loan shall be comprised in whole or in part of Eurodollar Loans, such Eurodollar Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Percentage.
Eurodollar Loans
Interest on the Term Loan shall be payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein).
         (e)  .  The portion of the Term Loan made by each Lender shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to such Lender substantially in the form of .
Term Notes
Schedule 2.4(e)
          (f)  .  Upon providing prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent, the Borrower shall have the right on the Closing Date, or any time thereafter, to make incremental increases to the Term Loan up to an aggregate amount of $150,000,000 for all such increases (i.e., the aggregate amount of the Term Loan shall not exceed $350,000,000), which increases shall be funded by existing or new Lenders that have agreed to provide an incremental Term Loan Commitment (an "Incremental Term Loan Commitment"), that (x) any such increases to be funded on the Closing Date shall be in accordance with the initial Incremental Term Loan Commitments as set forth on attached hereto and (y) any such increases to be funded after the Closing Date shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the following terms and conditions:
Increase of Term Loan
provided
Schedule 2.1(a)
        (i)  to the knowledge of the Administrative Agent, no Default or Event of Default shall exist and be continuing at the time of such increase;
        (ii)  concurrently with the Borrower's request for such increase hereunder, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an officer's certificate substantially in the form of Schedule 6.1(c) certifying that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and demonstrating compliance with each of the financial covenants set forth in Sections 6.10 and 6.11 both before and after giving effect to the increase requested hereunder;
          (iii)  each incremental Term Loan increase pursuant to this Section 2.4(f)(y) shall be in a minimum principal amount of $10,000,000 and in increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;
          (iv)  such incremental increase shall be allocated in the following order:
        (A)   first, to the existing Lenders consenting to an Incremental Term Loan Commitment; that if the aggregate Incremental Term Loan Commitments requested by the existing Lenders shall exceed the requested increase in the Term Loan, the Incremental Term Loan Commitments of such Lenders shall be allocated on a pro rata basis according to the existing Term Loan Commitment Percentages of such Lenders; and
provided
          (B)  second, to any other commercial bank, financial institution or "accredited investor" (as defined in Regulation D of the Securities and Exchange Commission) reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower;
        (v)  each Person providing an Incremental Term Loan Commitment shall execute an Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement substantially in the form of hereto and, upon such execution and the satisfaction of the other terms and conditions of this Section 2.4(f), such Person shall thereupon become a party hereto and have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Credit Agreement as more specifically provided in the Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement; and
Schedule 2.4(f)
          (vi)  the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of (A) the incremental increase to the Term Loan and (B) each Lender's Incremental Term Loan Commitment with respect to such increase.
Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein, each Lender that has provided an Incremental Term Loan Commitment severally agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the requested effective date (which date shall be a Business Day) of the relevant incremental increase in the Term Loan, such Lender's pro rata share (based upon the proportion such Lender's Incremental Term Loan Commitment bears to the total incremental increase in the Term Loan) of a term loan in Dollars in the aggregate principal amount corresponding to such incremental increase in the Term Loan.  The Borrower agrees that, in connection with any such increase in the Term Loan, it will promptly provide to each Lender providing an Incremental Term Loan Commitment (and to the extent such Lender has not already received a Term Note) a Term Note in the amount of its Incremental Term Loan Commitment substantially in the form of the Term Note attached hereto as .  Each of the parties hereto acknowledges and agrees that no Lender shall be obligated to offer an Incremental Term Loan Commitment pursuant to the terms of this Section 2.4(f).
Schedule 2.4(e)
SECTION 3
OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO CREDIT FACILITIES
3.1    .
Default Rate
            Upon the occurrence, and during the continuance, of an Event of Default, the principal of and, to the extent permitted by law, interest on the Loans and any other amounts owing hereunder or under the other Credit Documents shall bear interest, payable on demand, at a per annum rate 1% greater than the rate which would otherwise be applicable (or if no rate is applicable, whether in respect of interest, fees or other amounts, then 1% greater than the Base Rate).
3.2    .
Extension and Conversion
            Subject to the terms of Section 4.2, the Borrower shall have the option, on any Business Day, to extend existing Loans into a subsequent permissible Interest Period or to convert Loans into Loans of another interest rate type; , , that (a) except as provided in Section 3.8, Eurodollar Loans may be converted into Base Rate Loans only on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (b) Eurodollar Loans may be extended, and Base Rate Loans may be converted into Eurodollar Loans, only if no Default or Event of Default is in existence on the date of extension or conversion, (c) Loans extended as, or converted into, Eurodollar Loans shall be subject to the terms of the definition of "" set forth in Section 1.1 and shall be in such minimum amounts as provided in Section 2.1(b)(ii), (d) no more than 25 Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any time (it being understood that, for purposes hereof, Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans, even if they begin on the same date, although borrowings, extensions and conversions may, in accordance with the provisions hereof, be combined at the end of existing Interest Periods to constitute a new Eurodollar Loan with a single Interest Period), (e) any request for extension or conversion of a Eurodollar Loan which shall fail to specify an Interest Period shall be deemed to be a request for an Interest Period of one month and (f) Competitive Loans and Swingline Loans may not be extended or converted pursuant to this Section 3.2.  Each such extension or conversion shall be effected by a Financial Officer of the Borrower giving a Notice of Extension/Conversion (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing) to the Administrative Agent prior to 11:30 A.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the Business Day of, in the case of the extension of Base Rate Loans, and prior to 2:00 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the third Business Day prior to, in the case of the extension of a Eurodollar Loan as, or conversion of a Base Rate Loan into, a Eurodollar Loan, the date of the proposed extension or conversion, specifying the date of the proposed extension or conversion, the Loans to be so extended or converted, the types of Loans into which such Loans are to be converted and, if appropriate, the applicable Interest Periods with respect thereto.  Each request for extension or conversion shall be irrevocable and shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower of the matters specified in subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 4.2.  In the event the Borrower fails to request extension or conversion of any Eurodollar Loan in accordance with this Section, or any such conversion or extension is not permitted or required by this Section, then such Eurodollar Loan shall be automatically converted into a Base Rate Loan at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.  The Administrative Agent shall give each Lender notice as promptly as practicable of any such proposed extension or conversion affecting any Loan.
provided
however
Interest Period
3.3   .
Prepayments
        (a)  .  The Borrower shall have the right to prepay Loans (other than Competitive Bid Loans, which may not be prepaid) in whole or in part from time to time, subject to Section 3.11, but otherwise without premium or penalty; , , that (i) Eurodollar Loans may only be prepaid on three Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and specifying the applicable Loans to be prepaid; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Loans or Quoted Rate Swingline Loans will be subject to Section 3.11 and (iii) each such partial prepayment of Loans shall be (A) in the case of Revolving Loans or the Term Loan (or portion thereof), in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the full remaining amount of the Revolving Loan or Term Loan being prepaid) and (B) in the case of Swingline Loans, in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 and multiples of $500,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the full remaining amount of the then outstanding Swingline Loans).  Subject to the foregoing terms, amounts prepaid under this Section 3.3(a) shall be applied as the Borrower may elect.
Voluntary Prepayments
provided
however
        (b)  .
Mandatory Prepayments
        (i)  .  If at any time, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall exceed the Revolving Committed Amount, the Borrower promises to prepay immediately the outstanding principal balance on the Revolving Loans and/or Competitive Loans in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess.
Commitment Limitation
         (ii)  .  During any period in which the Borrower has a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P of below BBB- and a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from Moody's of below Baa3, immediately upon receipt by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of proceeds from any Debt or Equity Issuance (as defined below) the Borrower shall cause 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance to be applied as follows:
Debt and Equity Issuances
        (A)  to prepay the principal amount of any borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Facilities, with such prepayment applied pro rata to the Revolving Facilities (based on outstanding commitments thereunder) to the extent of outstanding borrowings under each Revolving Facility (it being understood that the aggregate amount of prepayments required to be made by the Borrower under both Revolving Facilities shall not exceed 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance); and
         (B)  to permanently reduce on a Dollar for Dollar basis commitments outstanding under the Revolving Facilities (regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings being prepaid), with such reductions applied pro rata to the Revolving Facilities (based on outstanding commitments thereunder) to the extent of outstanding commitments under each Revolving Facility (it being understood that the aggregate amount of commitment reductions required to be made by the Borrower under both Revolving Facilities shall not exceed 50% of the net cash proceeds of such Debt or Equity Issuance and that a commitment reduction under a Revolving Facility shall reduce the individual commitments of the lenders under such facility on a pro rata basis).
Any prepayment made pursuant to this Section 3.3(b)(ii) shall be accompanied by interest on the principal amount prepaid through the date of prepayment.  For purposes hereof, "" means the issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (to a Person other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) of (I) any Indebtedness for borrowed money in the form of publicly issued or privately placed bonds or other debt securities with a maturity of three years or greater or (II) any shares of capital stock or other equity securities (other than shares of capital stock issued by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the exercise of stock options).
Debt or Equity Issuance
        (c)  .  All prepayments made pursuant to this Section 3.3 shall (i) be subject to Section 3.11 and (ii) unless the Borrower shall specify otherwise, be applied first to Base Rate Loans, if any, and then to Eurodollar Loans in direct order of Interest Period maturities.  Except as otherwise set forth in subclause (b) above, amounts prepaid on the Revolving Loans may be reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
General
3.4    .
Termination and Reduction of Revolving Committed Amount
        (a)  .  The Borrower may from time to time permanently reduce or terminate the Revolving Committed Amount in whole or in part (in minimum aggregate amounts of $5,000,000 or in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the full remaining amount of the then applicable Revolving Committed Amount)) upon five Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent; , , no such termination or reduction shall be made which would cause the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans to exceed the Revolving Committed Amount unless, concurrently with such termination or reduction, the Revolving Loans and/or Competitive Loans are repaid to the extent necessary to eliminate such excess.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each affected Lender of receipt by the Administrative Agent of any notice from the Borrower pursuant to this Section 3.4(a).
Voluntary Reductions
provided
however
         (b) .   Subject to subclauses (c) and (d) below, the Revolving Commitments of the Lenders shall automatically terminate on the Termination Date.
Termination Date
         (c)  .  The Borrower may, no earlier than 60 days and no later than 30 days prior to the Termination Date applicable to Revolving Loans, Swingline Loans and Competitive Loans, by notice to the Administrative Agent, make written request of the Lenders to extend such Termination Date for an additional period of 364 days.  The Administrative Agent will give prompt notice to each of the Lenders of its receipt of any such request for extension of such Termination Date.  Each Lender, in its sole discretion, shall make a determination not more than 30 days nor less than 25 days prior to such Termination Date as to whether or not it will agree to extend such Termination Date as requested; , , that failure by any Lender to make a timely response to the Borrower's request for extension of such Termination Date shall be deemed to constitute a refusal by the Lender to extend such Termination Date.  If, in response to a request for an extension of such Termination Date, one or more Lenders shall fail to agree to the requested extension (the ""), then the Borrower may elect to either (A) continue the revolving credit facility hereunder at the same level of Revolving Commitments by replacing each of the Disapproving Lenders in accordance with Section 3.16, or (B) provided that the requested extension is approved by Lenders holding at least 51% of the Revolving Commitments hereunder (including for purposes hereof any Replacement Lenders which may replace a Disapproving Lender, the ""), extend and continue the revolving credit facility at a lower aggregate amount equal to the Revolving Commitments held by the Approving Lenders.  In any such case, (i) such Termination Date relating to the Revolving Commitments held by the Disapproving Lenders shall remain as then in effect with repayment of obligations held by such Disapproving Lenders being due on such date and termination of their respective Revolving Commitments on such date, and (ii) such Termination Date relating to the Revolving Commitments held by the Approving Lenders shall be extended by an additional period of 364 days.
Extension
provided
however
Disapproving Lenders
Approving Lenders
        (d)  .  If (i) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a written notice requesting an extension of the Termination Date applicable to Revolving Loans, Swingline Loans and Competitive Loans at least three (3) Business Days prior to such Termination Date then in effect (which notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly transmit to each Lender) and (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists on the otherwise applicable Termination Date, then such otherwise applicable Termination Date shall be extended (provided that no prior elections have been made under this Section 2.4(d)) to the first anniversary of such Termination Date then in effect.  No additional borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility set forth in Section 2.1 may be made during such extension period and any amounts repaid on Loans outstanding under such facility during such extension period may not be reborrowed.  The otherwise Applicable Percentage on all Loans outstanding under this option shall be increased by an additional 0.250% per annum.
Term Out Option
3.5    .
Fees
        (a)  .  In consideration of the Revolving Commitments of the Lenders hereunder, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a fee (the "") on the Revolving Committed Amount computed at a per annum rate for each day during the applicable Facility Fee Calculation Period (hereinafter defined) equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time.  The Facility Fee shall commence to accrue on the Closing Date and shall be due and payable in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December (and any date that the Revolving Committed Amount is reduced as provided in Section 3.4 and the Termination Date) for the immediately preceding quarter (or portion thereof) (each such quarter or portion thereof for which the Facility Fee is payable hereunder being herein referred to as a '"), beginning with the first of such dates to occur after the Closing Date.
Facility Fee
Facility Fee
Facility Fee Calculation Period
         (b)  .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, the fees referred to in the Administrative Agent's Fee Letter (collectively, the "").
Administrative Fees
Administrative Agent's Fee
         (c)  .  During such periods as the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Loans (other than the Term Loan) is greater than or equal to 33% of the Revolving Committed Amount (each a ""), the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a fee (the "") on all Loans (other than the Term Loan) outstanding during each such Utilization Fee Period computed at a per annum rate for each day during such period equal to the Applicable Percentage for the Utilization Fee in effect from time to time.  The Utilization Fee shall be due and payable in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December for all Utilization Fee Periods occurring during the immediately preceding quarter (or portion thereof), beginning with the first of such dates to occur after the Closing Date.
Utilization Fee
Utilization Fee Period
Utilization Fee
 
3.6 .
Capital Adequacy
            If any Lender determines the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, any Lending Installation of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a Change, then, within 15 days of demand by such Lender, the Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Credit Agreement, its Loans or its obligation to make Loans hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy).  "Change" means (i) any change after the Closing Date in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or (ii) any adoption of or change in any other law, governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the Closing Date which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any Lending Installation or any corporation controlling any Lender.  "Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" means (i) the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the Closing Date, including transition rules, and (ii) the corresponding capital regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities outside the United States implementing the July 1988 report of the Basle Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices Entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurements and Capital Standards," including transition rules, and any amendments to such regulations adopted prior to the Closing Date.
3.7    .
Inability To Determine Interest Rate
            If prior to the first day of any Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall have reasonably determined that, by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter.  If such notice is given (a) any Eurodollar Loans requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall be made as Base Rate Loans and (b) any Loans that were to have been converted on the first day of such Interest Period to or continued as Eurodollar Loans shall be converted to or continued as Base Rate Loans.  Until such notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Eurodollar Loans shall be made or continued as such, nor shall the Borrower have the right to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Loans.
3.8    .
Illegality
            Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof occurring after the Closing Date shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans as contemplated by this Credit Agreement, (a) such Lender shall promptly give written notice of such circumstances to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be withdrawn whenever such circumstances no longer exist), (b) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans, continue Eurodollar Loans as such and convert a Base Rate Loan to Eurodollar Loans shall forthwith be canceled and, until such time as it shall no longer be unlawful for such Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans, such Lender shall then have a commitment only to make a Base Rate Loan when a Eurodollar Loan is requested and (c) such Lender's Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar Loans, if any, shall be converted automatically to Base Rate Loans on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans or within such earlier period as required by law.  If any such conversion of a Eurodollar Loan occurs on a day which is not the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to Section 3.11.
3.9    .
Yield Protection
            If any law or any governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any interpretation thereof, or the compliance of any Lender therewith,
        (a)  subjects any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to any tax, duty, charge or withholding on or from payments due from the Borrower (excluding federal taxation of the overall net income of any Lender or applicable Lending Installation), or changes the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender in respect of its Loans or other amounts due it hereunder;
        (b)  imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirements against assets of, depositswith or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation (other than reserves and assessments taken into account in determining the Base Rate);
 and the result of which is to increase the cost to any Lender of making, funding or maintaining loans or reduces any amount receivable by any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with loans, or requires any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to the amount of loans held or interest received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Lender;
then, within 15 days of demand by such Lender, the Borrower shall pay such Lender that portion of such increased expense incurred or reduction in an amount received which such Lender determines is attributable to making, funding and maintaining its Loans and its Commitments. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
3.10    .
Withholding Tax Exemption
Each Lender that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof shall:
(a)  (i)  on or before the date of any payment by the Borrower under this Credit Agreement or Notes to such Lender, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (A) two (2) duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form 1001 or 4224, or successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying that it is entitled to receive payments under this Credit Agreement and any Notes without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes and (B) an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 or W-9, or successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying that it is entitled to an exemption from United States backup withholding tax;
         (ii)  deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two (2) further copies of any such form or certification on or before the date that any such form or certification expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form previously delivered by it to the Borrower; and
         (iii)  obtain such extensions of time for filing and complete such forms or certifications as may reasonably be requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent; or
          (b)  in the case of any such Lender that is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (i) represent to the Borrower (for the benefit of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) that it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) agree to furnish to the Borrower on or before the date of any payment by the Borrower, with a copy to the Administrative Agent two (2) accurate and complete original signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8, or successor applicable form certifying to such Lender's legal entitlement at the date of such certificate to an exemption from U.S. withholding tax under the provisions of Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to payments to be made under this Credit Agreement and any Notes (and to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two (2) further copies of such form on or before the date it expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recently provided form and, if necessary, obtain any extensions of time reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent for filing and completing such forms), and (iii) agree, to the extent legally entitled to do so, upon reasonable request by the Borrower, to provide to the Borrower (for the benefit of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) such other forms as may be reasonably required in order to establish the legal entitlement of such Lender to an exemption from withholding with respect to payments under this Credit Agreement and any Notes;
unless in any such case any change in treaty, law or regulation has occurred after the date such Person becomes a Lender hereunder which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form with respect to it and such Lender so advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in either case.  Each Person that shall become a Lender or a participant of a Lender pursuant to subsection 10.3 shall, upon the effectiveness of the related transfer, be required to provide all of the forms, certifications and statements required pursuant to this subsection, that in the case of a participant of a Lender the obligations of such participant of a Lender pursuant to this Section 3.10 shall be determined as if the participant of a Lender were a Lender except that such participant of a Lender shall furnish all such required forms, certifications and statements to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased.
provided
3.11    .
Indemnity
            The Borrower promises to indemnify each Lender and to hold each Lender harmless from any loss or expense which such Lender may sustain or incur (other than through such Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct) as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans or Quoted Rate Swingline Loans after the Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement, (b) default by the Borrower in making any prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan or a Quoted Rate Swingline Loan after the Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement or (c) the making of a prepayment of Eurodollar Loans or Quoted Rate Swingline Loans on a day which is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto.  With respect to Eurodollar Loans, such indemnification may include an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of the applicable Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Eurodollar Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Percentage included therein, if any) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) which would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank Eurodollar market.  The covenants of the Borrower set forth in this Section 3.11 shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
3.12    .
Pro Rata Treatment
            Except to the extent otherwise provided herein:
        (a)  .  Each Loan, each payment or prepayment of principal of any Loan, each payment of interest on the Loans, each payment of Facility Fees, each payment of Utilization Fees, each reduction of the Revolving Committed Amount and each conversion or extension of any Loan, shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders in accordance with the respective principal amounts of their outstanding Loans and Participation Interests.  With respect to Competitive Loans, if the Borrower fails to specify the particular Competitive Loan or Loans as to which any payment or other amount should be applied and it is not otherwise clear as to the particular Competitive Loan or Loans to which such payment or other amounts relate, or any such payment or other amount is to be applied to Competitive Loans without regard to any such direction by the Borrower, then each payment or prepayment of principal on Competitive Loans and each payment of interest or other amount on or in respect of Competitive Loans, shall be allocated pro rata among the relevant Lenders of Competitive Loans in accordance with the then outstanding amounts of their respective Competitive Loans.
Loans
 
        (b)  .  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Lender prior to a borrowing that such Lender will not make the amount that would constitute its ratable share of such borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender is making such amount available to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount.  If such amount is not made available to the Administrative Agent by such Lender within the time period specified therefor hereunder, such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon at a rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate for the period until such Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Administrative Agent.  A certificate of the Administrative Agent submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this subsection shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
Advances
3.13 .
Sharing of Payments
                The Lenders agree among themselves that, in the event that any Lender shall obtain payment in respect of any Loan or any other obligation owing to such Lender under this Credit Agreement through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of Title 11 of the United States Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, in excess of its pro rata share of such payment as provided for in this Credit Agreement, such Lender shall promptly purchase from the other Lenders a participation in such Loans and other obligations in such amounts, and make such other adjustments from time to time, as shall be equitable to the end that all Lenders share such payment in accordance with their respective ratable shares as provided for in this Credit Agreement.  The Lenders further agree among themselves that if payment to a Lender obtained by such Lender through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien, counterclaim or other event as aforesaid shall be rescinded or must otherwise be restored, each Lender which shall have shared the benefit of such payment shall, by repurchase of a participation theretofore sold, return its share of that benefit (together with its share of any accrued interest payable with respect thereto) to each Lender whose payment shall have been rescinded or otherwise restored.  The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing such a participation may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all rights of payment, including setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a holder of such Loan or other obligation in the amount of such participation.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Credit Agreement, if any Lender or the Administrative Agent shall fail to remit to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender an amount payable by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender pursuant to this Credit Agreement on the date when such amount is due, such payments shall be made together with interest thereon for each date from the date such amount is due until the date such amount is paid to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate.  If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, any Lender receives a secured claim in lieu of a setoff to which this Section 3.13 applies, such Lender shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the Lenders under this Section 3.13 to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim.
3.14   
Payments, Computations, Etc.
        (a)  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments hereunder (other than payments in respect of Competitive Loans) shall be made to the Administrative Agent in dollars in immediately available funds, without offset, deduction, counterclaim or withholding of any kind, at the Administrative Agent's office specified in not later than 4:00 P.M. (Boston, Massachusetts time) on the date when due.  Payments received after such time shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day.  The Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) debit the amount of any such payment which is not made by such time to any ordinary deposit account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent (with notice to the Borrower).  The Borrower shall, at the time it makes any payment under this Credit Agreement (other than payments in respect of Competitive Loans), specify to the Administrative Agent the Loans, Fees, interest or other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to which such payment is to be applied (and in the event that it fails so to specify, or if such application would be inconsistent with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Lenders in such manner as the Administrative Agent may determine to be appropriate in respect of obligations owing by the Borrower hereunder, subject to the terms of Section 3.12(a)).  The Administrative Agent will distribute such payments to such Lenders, if any such payment is received prior to 12:00 Noon (Boston, Massachusetts time) on a Business Day in like funds as received prior to the end of such Business Day and otherwise the Administrative Agent will distribute such payment to such Lenders on the next succeeding Business Day.  All payments of principal and interest in respect of Competitive Loans shall be made in accordance with the terms of Section 2.2.  Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (subject to accrual of interest and Fees for the period of such extension), except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans, if the extension would cause the payment to be made in the next following calendar month, then such payment shall instead be made on the next preceding Business Day.  Except as expressly provided otherwise herein, all computations of interest and fees shall be made on the basis of actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days, except with respect to computation of interest on Base Rate Loans which (unless the Base Rate is determined by reference to the Federal Funds Rate) shall be calculated based on a year of 365 or 366 days, as appropriate.  Interest shall accrue from and include the date of borrowing, but exclude the date of payment.
Schedule 2.1(a)
         (b)  .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement to the contrary, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all amounts collected or received by the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of the Loans, Fees or any other amounts outstanding under any of the Credit Documents shall be paid over or delivered as follows:
Allocation of Payments After Event of Default
        FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees) of the Administrative Agent in connection with enforcing the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents;
         SECOND, to payment of any fees owed to the Administrative Agent;
 
        THIRD, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) of each of the Lenders in connection with enforcing its rights under the Credit Documents or otherwise with respect to amounts owing to such Lender;
         FOURTH, to the payment of accrued fees and interest;
         FIFTH, to the payment of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans;
         SIXTH, to all other amounts and other obligations which shall have become due and payable under the Credit Documents or otherwise and not repaid pursuant to clauses "FIRST" through "FIFTH" above; and
         SEVENTH, to the payment of the surplus, if any, to whoever may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus.
In carrying out the foregoing, (i) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category; and (ii) each of the Lenders shall receive an amount equal to its pro rata share (based on the proportion that the then outstanding Loans held by such Lender bears to the aggregate then outstanding Loans) of amounts available to be applied pursuant to clauses "THIRD", "FOURTH", "FIFTH" and "SIXTH" above.
3.15    .
Evidence of Debt
        (a)  Each Lender shall maintain an account or accounts evidencing each Loan made by such Lender to the Borrower from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Credit Agreement.  Each Lender will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of its account or accounts and to promptly update its account or accounts from time to time, as necessary.
         (b)  The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pursuant to Section 10.3(c) hereof, and a subaccount for each Lender, in which Register and subaccounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the amount, type and Interest Period of each such Loan hereunder, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from or for the account of the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.  The Administrative Agent will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of the subaccounts referred to in the preceding sentence and to promptly update such subaccounts from time to time, as necessary.
        (c)  The entries made in the accounts, Register and subaccounts maintained pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 3.15 (and, if consistent with the entries of the Administrative Agent, subsection (a)) shall be prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations of the Borrower therein recorded; , , that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain any such account, such Register or such subaccount, as applicable, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans made by such Lender in accordance with the terms hereof.
provided
however
3.16 .
Replacement of Lenders
                In the event any Lender delivers to the Borrower any notice in accordance with Sections 3.6, 3.8, 3.9 or 3.10, then the Borrower shall have the right, if no Default or Event of Default then exists, to replace such Lender (the "") with one or more additional banks or financial institutions (collectively, the ""), that (A) at the time of any replacement pursuant to this Section 3.16, the Replacement Lender shall enter into one or more assignment agreements substantially in the form of pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, Section 10.3(b) (and with all fees payable pursuant to said Section 10.3(b) to be paid by the Replacement Lender) pursuant to which the Replacement Lender shall acquire all of the rights and obligations of the Replaced Lender hereunder and, in connection therewith, shall pay to the Replaced Lender in respect thereof an amount equal to the sum of (a) the principal of, and all accrued interest on, all outstanding Loans of the Replaced Lender, and (b) all accrued, but theretofore unpaid, fees owing to the Replaced Lender pursuant to Section 3.5(a), and (B) all obligations of the Borrower owing to the Replaced Lender (including all obligations, if any, owing pursuant to Section 3.6, 3.8 or 3.9, but excluding those obligations specifically described in clause (A) above in respect of which the assignment purchase price has been, or is concurrently being paid) shall be paid in full to such Replaced Lender concurrently with such replacement.             The Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect or any amounts payable hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall remain outstanding, and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have terminated:  
Replaced Lender
Replacement Lender
provided
Schedule 10.3(b)
SECTION 4
CONDITIONS
4.1    .
Closing Conditions
            The obligation of the Lenders to enter into this Credit Agreement and to make the initial Loans shall be subject to satisfaction of the following conditions (in form and substance acceptable to the Lenders):
            (a)  The Administrative Agent shall have received original counterparts of this Credit Agreement executed by each of the parties hereto;
             (b)  The Administrative Agent shall have received an appropriate original Revolving Note for each Lender that has not already been issued an appropriate original Revolving Note, executed by the Borrower;
             (c)  The Administrative Agent shall have received an appropriate original Competitive Note for each Lender that has not already been issued an appropriate original Competitive Note, executed by the Borrower;
             (d)  The Administrative Agent shall have received an appropriate original Swingline Note for the Swingline Lender, executed by the Borrower;
             (e)  The Administrative Agent shall have received an appropriate original Term Note for each Lender, executed by the Borrower;
 
            (f)  The Administrative Agent shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence and good standing of the Borrower, the corporate or other necessary authority for and the validity of the Credit Documents, and any other matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
             (g)  The Administrative Agent shall have received a legal opinion of Harry L. Goldsmith, Esq., general counsel for the Borrower, dated as of the Closing Date and substantially in the form of ;
Schedule 4.1(g)
             (h)  Since August 27, 2001 there shall not have occurred nor otherwise exist an event or condition which has a Material Adverse Effect;
             (i)  The Administrative Agent shall have received, for its own account and for the accounts of the Lenders, all fees and expenses required by this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document to be paid on or before the Closing Date;
             (j)  The Administrative Agent shall have received copies of assignments substantially in the form of necessary to effectuate this Credit Agreement, if any, that have been or will be consummated prior to or concurrently with the Closing Date; and
Schedule 10.3(b)
             (k)  The Administrative Agent shall have received such other documents, agreements or information which may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
4.2    .
Conditions to all Extensions of Credit
            The obligations of each Lender to make, convert or extend any Loan (including the initial Loans) are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions in addition to satisfaction on the Closing Date of the conditions set forth in Section 4.1:
            (a)  The Borrower shall have delivered, in the case of any Revolving Loan (or conversion or extension of a portion of the Term Loan), an appropriate Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Extension/Conversion, as applicable;
             (b)  The representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 shall be, subject to the limitations set forth therein, true and correct in all material respects as of such date (except for those which expressly relate to an earlier date);
             (c)  There shall not have been commenced against the Borrower an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or any case, proceeding or other action for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Borrower or for any substantial part of its Property or for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such involuntary case or other case, proceeding or other action shall remain undismissed, undischarged or unbonded;
             (d)  No Default or Event of Default shall exist and be continuing either prior to or after giving effect thereto; and
             (e)  Immediately after giving effect to the making of such Loan (and the application of the proceeds thereof), the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Revolving Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans shall not exceed the Revolving Committed Amount.
The delivery of each Notice of Borrowing and each Notice of Extension/Conversion shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower of the correctness of the matters specified in subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) above.
SECTION 5
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The Borrower hereby represents to the Administrative Agent and each Lender that:
5.1    .
Financial Condition
            The audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of August 27, 2001 and the audited consolidated statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for the year ended August 27, 2001 have heretofore been furnished to each Lender.  Such financial statements (including the notes thereto) (a) have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, (b) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby and (c) present fairly (on the basis disclosed in the footnotes to such financial statements) the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and for such periods.  During the period from August 27, 2001to and including the Closing Date, there has been no sale, transfer or other disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any material part of the business or property of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and no purchase or other acquisition by any of them of any business or property (including any capital stock of any other person) material in relation to the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case, which, is not reflected in the foregoing financial statements or in the notes thereto and has not otherwise been disclosed in writing to the Lenders on or prior to the Closing Date.
5.2    .
Organization; Existence; Compliance with Law
            Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has the corporate or other necessary power and authority, and the legal right, to own and operate its property, to lease the property it operates as lessee and to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged, except to the extent that the failure to have such legal right would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (c) is duly qualified as a foreign entity and in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and in good standing would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) is in compliance with all material Requirements of Law, except to the extent that the failure to comply therewith would not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.3    .
Power; Authorization; Enforceable Obligations
            The Borrower has the corporate or other necessary power and authority, and the legal right, to make, deliver and perform the Credit Documents to which it is a party, and in the case of the Borrower, to borrow hereunder, and has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the borrowings on the terms and conditions of this Credit Agreement and to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents to which it is a party.  No consent or authorization of, filing with, notice to or other similar act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is required to be obtained or made by or on behalf of the Borrower in connection with the borrowings hereunder or with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of the Credit Documents to which the Borrower is a party.  This Credit Agreement has been, and each other Credit Document to which the Borrower is a party will be, duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower.  This Credit Agreement constitutes, and each other Credit Document to which the Borrower is a party when executed and delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).
5.4    .
No Legal Bar
            The execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents by the Borrower, the borrowings hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof (a) will not violate any Requirement of Law or contractual obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in any respect that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (b) will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the properties or revenues of any of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to any such Requirement of Law or contractual obligation, and (c) will not violate or conflict with any provision of the Borrower's articles of incorporation or by-laws.
5.5    .
No Material Litigation
            Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.5, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its properties before any Governmental Authority that (a) could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (b) in any manner draw into question the validity, legality or enforceability of any Credit Document or any transaction contemplated thereby.
5.6    .
No Default
            Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default under or with respect to any of their contractual obligations in any respect which would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
5.7    .
Ownership of Property; Liens
            Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all its material real property, and good title to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all its other material property, and none of such property is subject to any Lien, except for Permitted Liens.
5.8    .
No Burdensome Restrictions
            Except as previously disclosed in writing to the Lenders on or prior to the Closing Date, no Requirement of Law or contractual obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.9    .
Taxes
            Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has filed or caused to be filed all United States federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns which, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, are required to be filed and has paid (a) all taxes shown to be due and payable on said returns or (b) all taxes shown to be due and payable on any assessments of which it has received notice made against it or any of its property and all other taxes, fees or other charges imposed on it or any of its property by any Governmental Authority (other than any (i) taxes, fees or other charges with respect to which the failure to pay, in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) taxes, fees or other charges the amount or validity of which are currently being contested and with respect to which reserves in conformity with GAAP have been provided on the books of such Person), and no tax Lien has been filed, and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fee or other charge.
5.10    .
ERISA
Except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect:
             (a)  During the five-year period prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made: (i) no ERISA Event has occurred, and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, no event or condition has occurred or exists as a result of which any ERISA Event could reasonably be expected to occur, with respect to any Plan; (ii) no "accumulated funding deficiency," as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, has occurred with respect to any Plan; (iii) each Single Employer Plan and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, each Multiemployer Plan has been maintained, operated, and funded in compliance with its own terms and in material compliance with the provisions of ERISA, the Code, and any other applicable federal or state laws; and (iv) no lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan has arisen or is reasonably likely to arise on account of any Plan.
             (b)  The actuarial present value of all "benefit liabilities" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA), whether or not vested, under each Single Employer Plan, as of the last annual valuation date prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made (determined, in each case, utilizing the actuarial assumptions used in such Plan's most recent actuarial valuation report), did not exceed as of such valuation date the fair market value of the assets of such Plan.
             (c)  Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, could be reasonably expected to incur, any withdrawal liability under ERISA to any Multiemployer Plan or Multiple Employer Plan.  Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate would become subject to any withdrawal liability under ERISA if the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate were to withdraw completely from all Multiemployer Plans and Multiple Employer Plans as of the valuation date most closely preceding the date on which this representation is made or deemed made.  Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has received any notification that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization (within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA), is insolvent (within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA), or has been terminated (within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA), and no Multiemployer Plan is, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, reasonably expected to be in reorganization, insolvent, or terminated.
             (d)  No prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or breach of fiduciary responsibility has occurred with respect to a Plan which has subjected or may subject the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to any liability under Sections 406, 409, 502(i), or 502(l) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, or under any agreement or other instrument pursuant to which the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate has agreed or is required to indemnify any person against any such liability.
            (e)  Neither the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliates has any material liability with respect to "expected post-retirement benefit obligations" within the meaning of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 106.
            (f)  Neither the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement nor the consummation of the financing transactions contemplated thereunder will involve any transaction which is subject to the prohibitions of Sections 404, 406 or 407 of ERISA or in connection with which a tax could be imposed pursuant to Section 4975 of the Code.  The representation by the Borrower in the preceding sentence is made in reliance upon and subject to the accuracy of the Lenders' representation in Section 10.15 with respect to their source of funds and is subject, in the event that the source of the funds used by the Lenders in connection with this transaction is an insurance company's general asset account, to the application of Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 95-60, 60 Fed. Reg. 35,925 (1995), compliance with the regulations issued under Section 401(c)(1)(A) of ERISA, or the issuance of any other prohibited transaction exemption or similar relief, to the effect that assets in an insurance company's general asset account do not constitute assets of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA of a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code.
5.11 .
Governmental Regulations, Etc
            (a)  No part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any "margin stock" in violation of Regulation U.  If requested by any Lender or the Administrative Agent, the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender a statement to the foregoing effect in conformity with the requirements of FR Form U-1 referred to in said Regulation U.  No indebtedness being reduced or retired out of the proceeds of the Loans was or will be incurred for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U or any "margin security" within the meaning of Regulation T.  "Margin stock" within the meanings of Regulation U does not constitute more than 25% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.  None of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, the direct or indirect use of the proceeds of the Loans) will violate or result in a violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or regulations issued pursuant thereto, or Regulation T, U or X.
            (b)  Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act or the Investment Company Act of 1940, each as amended.  In addition, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is (i) an "investment company" registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and is not controlled by such a company, or (ii) a "holding company", or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company", or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or of a "subsidiary" of a "holding company", within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
            (c)  Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has obtained all licenses, permits, franchises or other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of its respective Property and to the conduct of its business, except where such failure could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
            (d)  Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance of the United States of America, or of any state, city, town, municipality, county or any other jurisdiction, or of any agency thereof (including without limitation, environmental laws and regulations), except where such violation could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
            (e)  Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is current with all material reports and documents, if any, required to be filed with any state or federal securities commission or similar agency and is in full compliance in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of such commissions, except where such failure could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.12 .
Subsidiaries
            sets forth all the Subsidiaries of the Borrower at the Closing Date, the jurisdiction of their organization and the direct or indirect ownership interest of the Borrower therein.
Schedule 5.12
5.13    .
Purpose of Loans
            The proceeds of the Loans hereunder shall be used solely by the Borrower to (a) to refinance existing Indebtedness of the Borrower under existing credit agreements, (b) repurchase stock in the Borrower, (c) to finance acquisitions to the extent permitted under this Credit Agreement and (d) for the working capital, commercial paper back up, capital expenditures and any other lawful corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
SECTION 6
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
6.1    .
Information Covenants
            The Borrower will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders:
            (a)        .  As soon as available, and in any event within 100 days after the close of each fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, a consolidated balance sheet and income statement of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as of the end of such fiscal year, together with related consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and of cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in comparative form consolidated figures for the preceding fiscal year, all such financial information described above to be in reasonable form and detail and audited by Ernst & Young LLP (or independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent) and whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for changes with which such accountants concur) and shall not be limited as to the scope of the audit or qualified as to the status of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as a going concern.
Annual Financial Statements
             (b)  .  As soon as available, and in any event within 50 days after the close of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the fourth fiscal quarter, in which case 100 days after the end thereof) a consolidated balance sheet and income statement of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as of the end of such fiscal quarter, together with related consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and of cash flows for such fiscal quarter in each case setting forth in comparative form consolidated figures for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, all such financial information described above to be in reasonable form and detail and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, and accompanied by a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower to the effect that such quarterly financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments.
Quarterly Financial Statements
             (c)     .  At the time of delivery of the financial statements provided for in Sections 6.1(a) and 6.1(b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower substantially in the form of , (i) demonstrating compliance with the financial covenants contained in Sections 6.10 and 6.11 by calculation thereof as of the end of each such fiscal period and (ii) stating that no Default or Event of Default exists, or if any Default or Event of Default does exist, specifying the nature and extent thereof and what action the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto.
Officer's Certificate
Schedule 6.1(c)
             (d)     .  Promptly upon transmission or receipt thereof, (a) copies of any filings and registrations with, and reports to or from, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any successor agency, and copies of all financial statements, proxy statements, notices and reports as the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall send to its shareholders or to a holder of any Indebtedness owed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in its capacity as such a holder and (b) upon the request of the Administrative Agent, all reports and written information to and from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or any state or local agency responsible for environmental matters, the United States Occupational Health and Safety Administration, or any state or local agency responsible for health and safety matters, or any successor agencies or authorities concerning environmental, health or safety matters.
Reports
 
            (e)  .  Upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Borrower will give written notice to the Administrative Agent immediately of (a) the occurrence of an event or condition consisting of a Default or Event of Default, specifying the nature and existence thereof and what action the Borrower propose to take with respect thereto, and (b) the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) the pendency or commencement of any litigation, arbitral or governmental proceeding against such Person which if adversely determined is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the institution of any proceedings against such Person with respect to, or the receipt of notice by such Person of potential liability or responsibility for violation, or alleged violation of any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, including but not limited to, Environmental Laws, the violation of which would likely have a Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) any notice or determination concerning the imposition of any withdrawal liability by a Multiemployer Plan against such Person or any ERISA Affiliate, the determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, in reorganization within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA or the termination of any Plan.
Notices
             (f)     .  Upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Borrower will give written notice to the Administrative Agent promptly (and in any event within five business days) of: (i) of any event or condition, including, but not limited to, any Reportable Event, that constitutes, or might reasonably lead to, an ERISA Event; (ii) with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the receipt of notice as prescribed in ERISA or otherwise of any withdrawal liability assessed against the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates, or of a determination that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or insolvent (both within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA); (iii) the failure to make full payment on or before the due date (including extensions) thereof of all amounts which the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute to each Plan pursuant to its terms and as required to meet the minimum funding standard set forth in ERISA and the Code with respect thereto; or (iv) any change in the funding status of any Plan that reasonably could be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, together with a description of any such event or condition or a copy of any such notice and a statement by a Financial Officer of the Borrower briefly setting forth the details regarding such event, condition, or notice, and the action, if any, which has been or is being taken or is proposed to be taken by the Borrower with respect thereto.  Promptly upon request, the Borrower shall furnish the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with such additional information concerning any Plan as may be reasonably requested, including, but not limited to, copies of each annual report/return (Form 5500 series), as well as all schedules and attachments thereto required to be filed with the Department of Labor and/or the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to ERISA and the Code, respectively, for each "plan year" (within the meaning of Section 3(39) of ERISA).
ERISA
            (g)  .  With reasonable promptness upon any such request, such other information regarding the business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request.
Other Information
6.2    .
Preservation of Existence and Franchises
            Except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights, franchises and authority.
6.3    .
Books and Records
            The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep complete and accurate books and records of its transactions in accordance with good accounting practices on the basis of GAAP (including the establishment and maintenance of appropriate reserves).
6.4    .
Compliance with Law
            The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders, and all applicable restrictions imposed by all Governmental Authorities, applicable to it and its property if noncompliance with any such law, rule, regulation, order or restriction would have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.5    .
Payment of Taxes and Other Indebtedness
            Except as otherwise provided pursuant to the terms of the definition of "Permitted Liens" set forth in Section 1.1, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay and discharge (a) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it, or upon its income or profits, or upon any of its properties, before they shall become delinquent, (b) all lawful claims (including claims for labor, materials and supplies) which, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon any of its properties, and (c) except as prohibited hereunder, all of its other Indebtedness as it shall become due.
6.6    .
Insurance
            The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain in full force and effect insurance (including worker's compensation insurance, liability insurance and casualty insurance) in such amounts, covering such risks and liabilities and with such deductibles or self-insurance retentions as are in accordance with normal industry practice.
6.7    .
Maintenance of Property
            The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain and preserve its properties and equipment material to the conduct of its business in good repair, working order and condition, normal wear and tear and casualty and condemnation excepted, and will make, or cause to be made, in such properties and equipment from time to time all repairs, renewals, replacements, extensions, additions, betterments and improvements thereto as may be needed or proper, to the extent and in the manner customary for companies in similar businesses.
6.8    .
Use of Proceeds
            The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans solely for the purposes set forth in Section 5.13.
6.9    .
Audits/Inspections
            Upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent, including, without limitation, independent accountants, agents, attorneys, and appraisers to visit and inspect its property, including its books and records, its accounts receivable and inventory, its facilities and its other business assets, and to make photocopies or photographs thereof and to write down and record any information such representative obtains and shall permit the Administrative Agent or its representatives to investigate and verify the accuracy of information provided to the Lenders and to discuss all such matters with the officers, employees and representatives of such Person.
6.10    .
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR Ratio
        The Borrower shall cause the ratio of Consolidated Adjusted Debt to Consolidated EBITDAR as of the last day of each fiscal quarter to be no greater than the amount set forth below with respect to the applicable fiscal quarters set forth below:
6.11    .
Interest Coverage Ratio
            The Borrower shall cause the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter to be no less than 2.50 to 1.0.
SECTION 7
NEGATIVE COVENANTS
        The Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect or any amounts payable hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall remain outstanding, and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have terminated:
7.1    .
Liens
            The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien with respect to any of their Property, whether now owned or after acquired, except for Permitted Liens.
7.2    .
Nature of Business
            The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, substantively alter the character or conduct of the business conducted by any such Person as of the Closing Date.
7.3   
Consolidation, Merger, Sale or Purchase of Assets, etc.
        The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to:
            (a)  except in connection with a disposition of assets permitted by the terms of subsection (c) below, dissolve, liquidate or wind up their affairs;
             (b)  enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation; , , that, so long as no Default or Event of Default would be directly or indirectly caused as a result thereof, (i) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any of its Subsidiaries provided that the Borrower is the surviving corporation; (ii) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any other Subsidiary of the Borrower; and (iii) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may merge or consolidate with any Person (other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) provided that (A) the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower is the surviving corporation and (B) after giving effect on a pro forma basis to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default would exist hereunder;
provided
however
             (c)  sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of Property owned by and material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (other than any such sale, lease, transfer or other disposition by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower), , , for the purposes of this subsection (c), sale-leaseback transactions entered into by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole to the extent the aggregate amount with respect to all such transactions entered into after the Closing Date does not exceed $500,000,000; or
provided
however
             (d)  except as otherwise permitted by Section 7.3(a) or Section 7.3(b), acquire all or any portion of the capital stock or securities of any other Person or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire (in a single transaction or a series of related transactions) all or any substantial part of the Property of any other Person; that (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be permitted to make acquisitions of the type referred to in this Section 7.3(d), so long as such acquisitions are non-hostile and (ii) after giving effect on a pro forma basis to any such acquisition (including but not limited to any Indebtedness to be incurred or assumed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection therewith), no Default or Event of Default would exist hereunder.
provided
7.4    .
Fiscal Year
            The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change its fiscal year without first obtaining the written consent of the Required Lenders (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld).
7.5    .
Subsidiary Indebtedness
        The Borrower will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
            (a)  Indebtedness set forth on (and any renewals, refinancings or extensions thereof on terms and conditions no more favorable, in the aggregate, to such creditor than such existing Indebtedness and in a principal amount not in excess of that outstanding as of the date of such renewal, refinancing or extension);
Schedule 7.5
            (b)  intercompany Indebtedness owed by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or to another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower;
            (c)  Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries incurred after the Closing Date to provide all or a portion of the purchase price of short-lived assets (such as trucks and computer equipment) which may be treated as Capital Leases in accordance with GAAP in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in any fiscal year;
            (d)  Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries incurred in connection with synthetic leases, tax retention operating leases, off-balance sheet loans or similar off-balance sheet financings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000,000 in any two consecutive fiscal years; and
            (e)  other Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $25,000,000 at any time outstanding.
SECTION 8
   
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
8.1    .
Events of Default
            An Event of Default shall exist upon the occurrence of any of the following specified events (each an ""):
Event of Default
            (a)    .  The Borrower shall
Payment
            (i)  default in the payment when due of any principal of any of the Loans, or
            (ii)  default, and such default shall continue for five (5) or more Business Days, in the payment when due of any interest on the Loans, or of any Fees or other amounts owing hereunder, under any of the other Credit Documents or in connection herewith or therewith; or
            (b)  .  Any representation, warranty or statement made or deemed to be made by the Borrower herein, in any of the other Credit Documents, or in any statement or certificate delivered or required to be delivered pursuant hereto or thereto shall prove untrue in any material respect on the date as of which it was deemed to have been made; or
Representations
            (c)  .  The Borrower shall
Covenants
            (i)  default in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in Sections 6.2, 6.8, 6.10, 6.11 or 7.1 through 7.3, inclusive, and 7.5, or
            (ii)  default in the due performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 6.1 and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of at least 5 days after the earlier of a responsible officer of the Borrower becoming aware of such default or notice thereof by the Administrative Agent.
             (iii)  default in the due performance or observance by it of any term, covenant or agreement (other than those referred to in subsections (a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(ii) of this Section 8.1) contained in this Credit Agreement and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of at least 30 days after the earlier of a responsible officer of the Borrower becoming aware of such default or notice thereof by the Administrative Agent; or
            (d)  .  Any Bankruptcy Event shall occur with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; or
Bankruptcy, etc
 
            (e)  .  With respect to any Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness outstanding under this Credit Agreement or owing to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) in excess of $25,000,000 in the aggregate for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall (A) default in any payment (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any) with respect to any such Indebtedness, or (B) default in the observance or performance relating to such Indebtedness or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event or condition shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to cause, or permit, the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or trustee or agent on behalf of such holders) to cause, any such Indebtedness to become due prior to the applicable maturity date, but after the expiration of all applicable grace periods, and such Indebtedness shall not be repaid when due; or (ii) any such Indebtedness shall be declared due and payable, or required to be prepaid other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment, prior to the stated maturity thereof and shall not be repaid when due; or
Other Indebtedness
             (f) .  One or more judgments or decrees shall be entered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries involving a liability of $25,000,000 or more in the aggregate (to the extent not paid or covered by insurance) and any such judgments or decrees shall not have been vacated, discharged or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof or, if longer, within the applicable appeal period (but in no event for more than 90 days from the entry thereof); or
Judgments
             (g) .  Any of the following events or conditions, if such event or condition reasonably could be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect: (1) any "accumulated funding deficiency," as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan, or any lien shall arise on the assets of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in favor of the PBGC or a Plan; (2) an ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Single Employer Plan, which is, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA; (3) an ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Multiemployer Plan or Multiple Employer Plan, which is, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, likely to result in (i) the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, or (ii) the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate incurring any liability in connection with a withdrawal from, reorganization of (within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA), or insolvency or (within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA) such Plan; or (4) any prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or breach of fiduciary responsibility shall occur which may subject the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to any liability under Sections 406, 409, 502(i), or 502(l) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, or under any agreement or other instrument pursuant to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate has agreed or is required to indemnify any person against any such liability.
ERISA
            (h)  .  There shall occur a Change of Control.
Ownership
8.2    .
Acceleration; Remedies
            Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, and at any time thereafter unless and until such Event of Default has been waived by the Required Lenders or cured to the satisfaction of the Required Lenders (pursuant to the voting procedures in Section 10.6), the Administrative Agent shall, upon the request and direction of the Required Lenders, by written notice to the Borrower take any of the following actions:
            Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in Section 8.1(d) shall occur, then the Commitments shall automatically terminate and all Loans, all accrued interest in respect thereof, all accrued and unpaid Fees and other indebtedness or obligations owing to the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Lenders hereunder automatically shall immediately become due and payable without the giving of any notice or other action by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders.             The Administrative Agent and its affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower, its Subsidiaries or their respective Affiliates as though the Administrative Agent were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.  With respect to the Loans made by and all obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, the Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers under this Credit Agreement as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" shall include the Administrative Agent in its individual capacity.  
            (a)  .  Declare the Commitments terminated whereupon the Commitments shall be immediately terminated.
Termination of Commitments
            (b) .  Declare the unpaid principal of and any accrued interest in respect of all Loans and any and all other indebtedness or obligations of any and every kind owing by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Lenders hereunder to be due whereupon the same shall be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
Acceleration
            (c) .  Enforce any and all rights and interests created and existing under the Credit Documents and all rights of set-off.
Enforcement of Rights
SECTION 9
AGENCY PROVISIONS
9.1    .
Appointment
            Each Lender hereby designates and appoints Fleet National Bank as Administrative Agent (in such capacity as Administrative Agent hereunder, the "Administrative Agent") of such Lender to act as specified herein and the other Credit Documents, and each such Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent as the agent for such Lender, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated by the terms hereof and of the other Credit Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere herein and in the other Credit Documents, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein and therein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, or shall otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent.  The provisions of this Section are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of the provisions hereof.  In performing its functions and duties under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents, the Administrative Agent shall act solely as agent of the Lenders and does not assume and shall not be deemed to have assumed any obligation or relationship of agency or trust with or for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates.
9.2    .
Delegation of Duties
            The Administrative Agent may execute any of its respective duties hereunder or under the other Credit Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties; that the use of any agents or attorneys-in-fact shall not relieve the Administrative Agent of its duties hereunder.
provided
9.3    .
Exculpatory Provisions
            The Administrative Agent and its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates shall not be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection herewith or in connection with any of the other Credit Documents (except for its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct), or (b) responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Borrower contained herein or in any of the other Credit Documents or in any certificate, report, document, financial statement or other written or oral statement referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection herewith or in connection with the other Credit Documents, or enforceability or sufficiency therefor of any of the other Credit Documents, or for any failure of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder.  The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to any Lender for the effectiveness, genuineness, validity, enforceability, collectibility or sufficiency of this Credit Agreement, or any of the other Credit Documents or for any representations, warranties, recitals or statements made herein or therein or made by the Borrower in any written or oral statement or in any financial or other statements, instruments, reports, certificates or any other documents in connection herewith or therewith furnished or made by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders or by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or be required to ascertain or inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, conditions, provisions, covenants or agreements contained herein or therein or as to the use of the proceeds of the Loans or of the existence or possible existence of any Default or Event of Default or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates.
9.4    .
Reliance on Communications
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any note, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation reasonably believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the Borrower, independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent with reasonable care).  The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the Lenders as the owner of their respective interests hereunder for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 10.3(b) hereof.  The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Credit Agreement or under any of the other Credit Documents unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.  The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents in accordance with a request of the Required Lenders (or to the extent specifically provided in Section 10.6, all the Lenders) and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders (including their successors and assigns).
         
9.5    .
Notice of Default
            The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default hereunder unless the Administrative Agent has received notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to the Credit Document, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders.   The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders.
9.6    .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
            Each Lender expressly acknowledges that each of the Administrative Agent and its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates has not made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Administrative Agent or any affiliate thereof hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Administrative Agent to any Lender.  Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, assets, operations, property, financial and other conditions, prospects and creditworthiness of the Borrower or its Affiliates and made its own decision to make its Loans hereunder and enter into this Credit Agreement.  Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, assets, operations, property, financial and other conditions, prospects and creditworthiness of the Borrower and its Affiliates.  Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent hereunder, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, assets, property, financial or other conditions, prospects or creditworthiness of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates which may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates.
9.7    .
Indemnification
            The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), ratably according to their respective Commitments (or if the Commitments have expired or been terminated, in accordance with the respective principal amounts of outstanding Loans and Participation Interests of the Lenders), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind whatsoever which may at any time (including without limitation at any time following the final payment of all of the obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the other Credit Documents) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such in any way relating to or arising out of this Credit Agreement or the other Credit Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Lender shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent.  If any indemnity furnished to the Administrative Agent for any purpose shall, in the opinion of the Administrative Agent, be insufficient or become impaired, the Administrative Agent may call for additional indemnity and cease, or not commence, to do the acts indemnified against until such additional indemnity is furnished.  The agreements in this Section shall survive the repayment of the Loans and other obligations under the Credit Documents and the termination of the Commitments hereunder.
provided
9.8    .
Administrative Agent in its Individual Capacity
9.9    .
Successor Administrative Agent
            The Administrative Agent may, at any time, resign upon 20 days' written notice to the Lenders, and may be removed, upon show of cause, by the Required Lenders upon 30 days' written notice to the Administrative Agent.  Upon any such resignation or removal, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent; that, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such successor Administrative Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower.  If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the notice of resignation or notice of removal, as appropriate, then the retiring Administrative Agent shall select a successor Administrative Agent provided such successor is a Lender hereunder or a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $400,000,000.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent, as appropriate, under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and the provisions of this Section 9 shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Credit Agreement.
provided
9.10    .
Syndication Agent
            The Syndication Agent, in its capacity as such, shall have no rights, powers, duties or obligations under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents.
SECTION 10
MISCELLANEOUS
10.1    .
Notices
            Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications shall have been duly given and shall be effective (i) when delivered, (ii) when transmitted and received (by confirmation of receipt) via telecopy (or other facsimile device) to the number set out below, (iii) the day following the day on which the same has been delivered prepaid to a reputable national overnight air courier service, or (iv) the third Business Day following the day on which the same is sent by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, in each case to the respective parties at the address, in the case of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, set forth below, and, in the case of the Lenders, set forth on , or at such other address as such party may specify by written notice to the other parties hereto:
Schedule 2.1(a)
if to the Borrower:
AutoZone, Inc.
123 South Front Street
Memphis, TN  38103
Attn:  Chief Financial Officer
Telephone:  (901) 495-7897
Telecopy:  (901) 495-8317
with a copy to the Treasurer and to the General Counsel for the Borrower at the same address;
if to the Administrative Agent:
Fleet National Bank
Agency Services
MADE10307C
100 Federal Street, 8 Floor
th
Boston, MA  02110
Attn: Mary Joyce
with a copy to:
Fleet National Bank
Retail & Apparel Division
MADE10009A
100 Federal Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attn: Thomas J. Bullard, Director
Telephone:  (617) 434-3824
Telecopy:  (617) 434-6685
10.2    .
Right of Set-Off
           In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable law, and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind (all of which rights being hereby expressly waived), to set-off and to appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Lender (including, without limitation, branches, agencies or Affiliates of such Lender wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against obligations and liabilities of such Person to such Lender hereunder, under the Notes or the other Credit Documents, irrespective of whether such Lender shall have made any demand hereunder and although such obligations, liabilities or claims, or any of them, may be contingent or unmatured, and any such set-off shall be deemed to have been made immediately upon the occurrence of an Event of Default even though such charge is made or entered on the books of such Lender subsequent thereto.  Any Person purchasing a participation in the Loans and Commitments hereunder pursuant to Section 3.13 or Section 10.3(d) may exercise all rights of set-off with respect to its participation interest as fully as if such Person were a Lender hereunder.
10.3    .
Benefit of Agreement
            (a)  .  This Credit Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto; that the Borrower may not assign or transfer any of its interests without prior written consent of the Lenders; that the rights of each Lender to transfer, assign or grant participations in its rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be limited as set forth in this Section 10.3, however that nothing herein shall prevent or prohibit any Lender from (i) pledging its Loans hereunder to a Federal Reserve Bank in support of borrowings made by such Lender from such Federal Reserve Bank, or (ii) granting assignments or selling participations in such Lender's Loans and/or Commitments hereunder to its parent company and/or to any Affiliate or Subsidiary of such Lender.
Generally
provided
provided further
provided
            (b)  .  Each Lender may assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations hereunder, pursuant to an assignment agreement substantially in the form of , to (i) any Lender or any Affiliate or Subsidiary of a Lender, or (ii) any other commercial bank, financial institution or "accredited investor" (as defined in Regulation D of the Securities and Exchange Commission) that is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, is reasonably acceptable to the Borrower; that (i) any such assignment (other than any assignment to an existing Lender) shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 (or, if less, the remaining amount of the Commitment being assigned by such Lender) of the Commitments and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 above such amount and (ii) so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, no Lender shall assign more than 50% of such Lender's original aggregate Commitments without the written consent of the Borrower.  Any assignment hereunder shall be effective upon delivery to the Administrative Agent of written notice of the assignment together with a transfer fee of $3,500 payable to the Administrative Agent for its own account from and after the later of (i) the effective date specified in the applicable assignment agreement and (ii) the date of recording of such assignment in the Register pursuant to the terms of subsection (c) below.  The assigning Lender will give prompt notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower of any such assignment.  Upon the effectiveness of any such assignment (and after notice to, and (to the extent required pursuant to the terms hereof), with the consent of, the Borrower as provided herein), the assignee shall become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and, to the extent of such assignment, the assigning Lender shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder to the extent of the Loans and Commitment components being assigned.  Along such lines the Borrower agrees that upon notice of any such assignment and surrender of the appropriate Note or Notes, it will promptly provide to the assigning Lender and to the assignee separate promissory notes in the amount of their respective interests substantially in the form of the original Note (but with notation thereon that it is given in substitution for and replacement of the original Note or any replacement notes thereof).  By executing and delivering an assignment agreement in accordance with this Section 10.3(b), the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) except as set forth in clause (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto or the financial condition of the Borrower or any of its respective Affiliates or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (iii) such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such assignment agreement; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Credit Agreement, the other Credit Documents and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such assignment agreement; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations which by the terms of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.  If the assignee is not a United States person under Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a valid certification as to exemption from deduction or withholding of taxes in accordance with Section 3.10.
Assignments
Schedule 10.3(b)
provided
            (c)  .  The Administrative Agent shall maintain at one of its offices in Boston, Massachusetts (i) a copy of each Lender assignment agreement delivered to it in accordance with the terms of subsection (b) above and (ii) a register for the recordation of the identity of the principal amount, type and Interest Period of each Loan outstanding hereunder, the names, addresses and the Commitments of the Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The Administrative Agent will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of the Register and to promptly update the Register from time to time, as necessary.  The Register shall be prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence of the information contained therein and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Credit Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and each Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Maintenance of Register
Register
            (d)  .  Each Lender may sell, transfer, grant or assign participations in all or any part of such Lender's interests and obligations hereunder; that (i) such selling Lender shall remain a "Lender" for all purposes under this Credit Agreement (such selling Lender's obligations under the Credit Documents remaining unchanged) and the participant shall not constitute a Lender hereunder, (ii) no such participant shall have, or be granted, rights to approve any amendment or waiver relating to this Credit Agreement or the other Credit Documents except to the extent any such amendment or waiver would (A) reduce the principal of or rate of interest on or Fees in respect of any Loans in which the participant is participating or (B) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal (including extension of the Termination Date or the date of any mandatory prepayment), interest or Fees in which the participant is participating, and (iii) sub-participations by the participant (except to an affiliate, parent company or affiliate of a parent company of the participant) shall be prohibited.  In the case of any such participation, the participant shall not have any rights under this Credit Agreement or the other Credit Documents (the participant's rights against the selling Lender in respect of such participation to be those set forth in the participation agreement with such Lender creating such participation) and all amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participation, , , that such participant shall be entitled to receive additional amounts under Sections 3.6, 3.9 and 3.11 on the same basis as if it were a Lender provided that it shall not be entitled to receive any more than the selling Lender would have received had it not sold the participation.
Participations
provided
provided
however
            (e)  .
Designation
            (i)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to one or more special purpose funding vehicles (each, an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Designating Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Designating Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Credit Agreement; provided that (I) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make any Loan, (II) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Designating Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof, (III) the Designating Lender shall remain liable for any indemnity or other payment obligation with respect to its Commitment hereunder and (IV) each such SPV would satisfy the requirements of Section 3.10 if such SPV was a Lender hereunder.  The making of a Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Designating Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Designating Lender.
Designating Lender
SPV
             (ii)  As to any Loans or portion thereof made by it, each SPV shall have all the rights that a Lender making such Loans or portion thereof would have had under this Credit Agreement; provided, however that each SPV shall have granted to its Designating Lender an irrevocable power of attorney, to deliver and receive all communications and notices under this Credit Agreement (and any related documents) and to exercise on such SPV's behalf, all of such SPV's voting rights under this Credit Agreement.  No additional Note shall be required to evidence the Loans or portion thereof made by an SPV; and the related Designating Lender shall be deemed to hold its Note as agent for such SPV to the extent of the Loans or portion thereof funded by such SPV.  In addition, any payments for the account of any SPV shall be paid to its Designating Lender as agent for such SPV.
             (iii)  Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be liable for any indemnity or payment under this Credit Agreement for which a Lender would otherwise be liable for so long as, and to the extent, the Designating Lender provides such indemnity or makes such payment.  In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding prior indebtedness of any SPV, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPV any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings or similar proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.
            (iv)  In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 10.3 or otherwise in this Credit Agreement, any SPV may (I) at any time and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign or participate all or a portion of its interest in any Loans to the Designating Lender (or to any other SPV of such Designating Lender) or to any financial institutions providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (II) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancements to such SPV.  This Section 10.3 may not be amended without the written consent of any Designating Lender affected thereby.
10.4    .
No Waiver; Remedies Cumulative
            No failure or delay on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document and no course of dealing between the Administrative Agent or any Lender and the Borrower shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder or thereunder.  The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which the Administrative Agent or any Lender would otherwise have.  No notice to or demand on the Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances or constitute a waiver of the rights of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders to any other or further action in any circumstances without notice or demand.
10.5    .
Payment of Expenses, etc
            The Borrower agrees to:  (a) pay all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (i) of the Administrative Agent in connection with the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery and administration of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and the documents and instruments referred to therein (including, subject to agreed upon limitations, the reasonable fees and expenses of Moore & Van Allen, PLLC, special counsel to the Administrative Agent and non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) and any amendment, waiver or consent relating hereto and thereto including, but not limited to, any such amendments, waivers or consents resulting from or related to any work-out, renegotiation or restructure relating to the performance by the Borrower under this Credit Agreement and (ii) of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection with enforcement of the Credit Documents and the documents and instruments referred to therein (including, without limitation, in connection with any such enforcement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel (including non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) for the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders); (b) pay and hold each of the Lenders harmless from and against any and all future stamp and other similar taxes with respect to the foregoing matters and save each of the Lenders harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay or omission (other than to the extent attributable to such Lender) to pay such taxes; and (c) indemnify each Lender, its officers, directors, employees, representatives, agents and Affiliates from and hold each of them harmless against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses incurred by any of them as a result of, or arising out of, or in any way related to, or by reason of (i) any investigation, litigation or other proceeding (whether or not any Lender is a party thereto, but excluding any investigation initiated by the Person seeking indemnification hereunder) related to the entering into and/or performance of any Credit Document or the use of proceeds of any Loans (including other extensions of credit) hereunder or the consummation of any other transactions contemplated in any Credit Document, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel (including non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) incurred in connection with any such investigation, litigation or other proceeding or (ii) the presence or Release of any Materials of Environmental Concern at, under or from any Property owned, operated or leased by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the failure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with any Environmental Law (but excluding, in the case of either of clause (i) or (ii) above, any such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses to the extent (A) incurred by reason of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Person to be indemnified, (B) owing to the Borrower or (C) owing to another Person entitled to indemnification hereunder).
10.6    .
Amendments, Waivers and Consents
            Neither this Credit Agreement nor any other Credit Document nor any of the terms hereof or thereof may be amended, changed, waived, discharged or terminated unless such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination is in writing entered into by, or approved in writing by, the Required Lenders and the Borrower, , , that:
provided
however
           (a)  no such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (i) reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest (other than as a result of (x) waiving the applicability of any post-default increase in interest rates or (y) an amendment approved by the Required Lenders as set forth in the definition of "Applicable Percentage" following the withdrawal by S&P and Moody's of their ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt) on any Loan or fees hereunder, (ii) reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of any fees owing hereunder, (iii) extend (A) the Commitments of the Lenders, or (B) the final maturity of any Loan, or any portion thereof, or (iv) reduce the principal amount on any Loan;
             (b)  no such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (i) except as otherwise permitted under Section 2.4(f) or Section 3.4(c), increase the Commitments of the Lenders over the amount thereof in effect (it being understood and agreed that a waiver of any Default or Event of Default shall not constitute a change in the terms of any Commitment of any Lender), (ii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this Section 10.6 or Section 3.6, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 8.1(a), 10.2, 10.3, 10.5 or 10.9, (iii) reduce or increase any percentage specified in, or otherwise modify, the definition of "Required Lenders," or (iv) consent to the assignment or transfer by the Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under (or in respect of) the Credit Documents to which it is a party;
             (c)  no provision of Section 2.3 may be amended without the consent of the Swingline Lender and no provision of Section 9 may be amended without the consent of the Administrative Agent; and
            (d)  designation of the Master Account or of any Financial Officer may not be made without the written consent of at least two Financial Officers of the Borrower.
10.7    .
Counterparts
            This Credit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.  It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Credit Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
10.8    .
Headings
            The headings of the sections and subsections hereof are provided for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Credit Agreement.
10.9    .
Survival
            All indemnities set forth herein, including, without limitation, in Section 3.9, 3.11, 9.7 or 10.5 shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the making of the Loans, the repayment of the Loans and other obligations under the Credit Documents and the termination of the Commitments hereunder, and all representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein shall survive delivery of the Notes and the making of the Loans hereunder.
10.10    .
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Venue
            (a)  THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document may be brought in the courts of the State of New York in New York County, or of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and, by execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby irrevocably accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, the nonexclusive jurisdiction of such courts.  The Borrower further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to it at the address set out for notices pursuant to Section 10.1, such service to become effective three (3) days after such mailing.  Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or to otherwise proceed against the Borrower in any other jurisdiction.
             (b)  The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document brought in the courts referred to in subsection (a) hereof and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
             (c)  TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY OF THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
10
.11 .
Severability
            If any provision of any of the Credit Documents is determined to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be fully severable and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be construed without giving effect to the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.
10.12    .
Entirety
        This Credit Agreement together with the other Credit Documents represent the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, if any, including any commitment letters or correspondence relating to the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated herein and therein.
10.13    .
Binding Effect; Amendment and Restatement of Existing Credit Agreement; Termination
            (a)  This Credit Agreement shall become effective at such time on or after the Closing Date when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received copies hereof (telefaxed or otherwise) which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each Lender, and thereafter this Credit Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns.  The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that at such time as this Credit Agreement shall have become effective pursuant to the terms of the first sentence of this Section 10.13(a), the Existing Credit Agreement automatically shall be deemed amended and restated in its entirety by this Credit Agreement
             (b)  The term of this Credit Agreement shall be until no Loans or any other amounts payable hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents shall remain outstanding and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have expired or been terminated.
10.14 .
Confidentiality
            The Administrative Agent and the Lenders agree to keep confidential (and to cause their respective affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives to keep confidential) all information, materials and documents furnished to the Administrative Agent or any such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower (whether before or after the Closing Date) which relates to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (the "Information").  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be permitted to disclose Information (i) to its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives in connection with its participation in any of the transactions evidenced by this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents or the administration of this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents; (ii) to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, or requested by any Governmental Authority; (iii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Credit Agreement or any agreement entered into pursuant to clause (iv) below, (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or such Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or (C) was available to the Administrative Agent or such Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure to the Administrative Agent or such Lender by the Borrower; (iv) to any assignee or participant (or prospective assignee or participant) so long as such assignee or participant (or prospective assignee or participant) first specifically agrees in a writing furnished to and for the benefit of the Borrower to be bound by the terms of this Section 10.14; (v) to the extent required in connection with the exercise of remedies under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents; or (vi) to the extent that the Borrower shall have consented in writing to such disclosure.  Nothing set forth in this Section 10.14 shall obligate the Administrative Agent or any Lender to return any materials furnished by the Borrower.
10.15    .
Source of Funds
        Each of the Lenders hereby represents and warrants to the Borrower that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to the source of funds to be used by such Lender in connection with the financing hereunder:
            (a)  no part of such funds constitutes assets allocated to any separate account maintained by such Lender in which any employee benefit plan (or its related trust) has any interest;
             (b)  to the extent that any part of such funds constitutes assets allocated to any separate account maintained by such Lender, such Lender has disclosed to the Borrower the name of each employee benefit plan whose assets in such account exceed 10% of the total assets of such account as of the date of such purchase (and, for purposes of this subsection (b), all employee benefit plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization are deemed to be a single plan);
             (c)  to the extent that any part of such funds constitutes assets of an insurance company's general account, such insurance company has complied with all of the requirements of the regulations issued under Section 401(c)(1)(A) of ERISA; or
             (d)  such funds constitute assets of one or more specific benefit plans which such Lender has identified in writing to the Borrower.
As used in this Section 10.15, the terms "employee benefit plan" and "separate account" shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
10.16    .
Conflict
            To the extent that there is a conflict or inconsistency between any provision hereof, on the one hand, and any provision of any Credit Document, on the other hand, this Credit Agreement shall control.
 
[Signature Pages to Follow]
        each of the parties hereto has caused a counterpart of this Credit Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first written above.    
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
[signature pages continue]
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
[signature pages continue]
 
Schedule 1.1
APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE
Pricing Grid for Revolving Loans
Pricing Grid for Term Loan
The Applicable Percentage shall be based on the applicable Pricing Level corresponding to the Rating(s) then in effect.  In the event of a Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the higher Rating. In the event of a Double Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the Pricing Level which is one above that corresponding to the lower Rating.  If no Rating exists, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another Rating or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement.
As used herein:
            "" means the senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating of the Borrower, as published by S&P and/or Moody's.
Rating
           "" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are not more than one Pricing Level apart.
Split Rating
           "" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are two or more Pricing Levels apart.
Double Split Rating
                  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest as provided in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement.  Further, in the event the payment of all sums due hereunder is accelerated under the terms of the Credit Agreement, this Note, and all other indebtedness of the Borrower to the Swingline Lender shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.    
Schedule 2.1(a)
Lenders/Commitments as of Closing Date
Schedule 2.1(b)(i)
FORM OF NOTICE OF BORROWING
Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders 100 Federal Street MADE10307C Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, (the ""), refers to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among the Borrower, the Lenders, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  The Borrower hereby gives notice pursuant to Section 2.1 of the Credit Agreement that it requests a Revolving Loan advance under the Credit Agreement, and in connection therewith sets forth below the terms on which such Revolving Loan advance is requested to be made:
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
(A)    Date of Borrowing (which is a Business Day)                ________________________________
(B)    Principal Amount of Borrowing                                    ________________________________
(C)    Interest rate basis                                                        ________________________________
(D)    Interest Period and the last day thereof                        ________________________________
        In accordance with the requirements of Section 4.2, the Borrower hereby reaffirms the representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement as provided in subsection (b) of such Section, and confirms that the matters referenced in subsections (c), (d) and (e) of such Section, are true and correct.
Very truly yours,
 
AUTOZONE, INC.
  By:    ________________________________
Name:    _____________________________
Title:    ______________________________
Schedule 2.1(e)
FORM OF REVOLVING NOTE
     
May 22, 2001
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, , a Nevada corporation (the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of __________________________, its successors and assigns (the ""), at the office of Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent (the ""), at 100 Federal StreetMADE10307C, Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services (or at such other place or places as the holder hereof may designate), at the times set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2002, among the Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent (as it may be amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""; all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), but in no event later than the Termination Date, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Revolving Loans made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at said office, on the dates and at the rates selected in accordance with Section 2.1(d) of the Credit Agreement.
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
Lender
Administrative Agent
,
Credit Agreement
        Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest as provided in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement.  Further, in the event the payment of all sums due hereunder is accelerated under the terms of the Credit Agreement, this Note, and all other indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
        In the event this Note is not paid when due at any stated or accelerated maturity, the Borrower agrees to pay, in addition to the principal and interest, all costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
        All borrowings evidenced by this Note and all payments and prepayments of the principal hereof and interest hereon and the respective dates thereof shall be endorsed by the holder hereof on a schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, or on a continuation thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof; , , that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to make payments of principal and interest in accordance with the terms of this Note.
provided
however
        This Note and the Revolving Loans evidenced hereby may be transferred in whole or in part only by registration of such transfer on the Register maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower as provided in Section 10.3(c) of the Credit Agreement.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be duly executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
 
AUTOZONE, INC.
  By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
  By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
Schedule 2.2(f)
FORM OF COMPETITIVE NOTE
May 22, 2001
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, , a Nevada corporation (the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of __________________________, its successors and permitted assigns (the ""), at the office of Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent (the ""), at 100 Federal StreetMADE10307C, Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services (or at such other place or places as the holder hereof may designate), at the times set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2002, among the Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent (as it may be amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""; all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), but in no event later than the Termination Date, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Competitive Loans made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at said office, on the dates and at the rates selected in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Credit Agreement and in the respective Competitive Bid applicable to each Competitive Loan borrowing evidenced hereby.
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
Lender
Administrative Agent
,
Credit Agreement
        Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest as provided in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement.  Further, in the event the payment of all sums due hereunder is accelerated under the terms of the Credit Agreement, this Note, and all other indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
        In the event this Note is not paid when due at any stated or accelerated maturity, the Borrower agrees to pay, in addition to the principal and interest, all costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
        All borrowings evidenced by this Note and all payments and prepayments of the principal hereof and interest hereon and the respective dates thereof shall be endorsed by the holder hereof on a schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, or on a continuation thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof; , , that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to make payments of principal and interest in accordance with the terms of this Note.
provided
however
        This Note and the Loans evidenced hereby may be transferred in whole or in part only by registration of such transfer on the Register maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower as provided in Section 10.3(c) of the Credit Agreement.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be duly executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
 
AUTOZONE, INC.
By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
  By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
Schedule 2.3(d)
FORM OF SWINGLINE NOTE
May 21, 2001
                FOR VALUE RECEIVED, , a Nevada corporation (the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of , its successors and assigns (the ""), at the office of Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent (the ""), at 100 Federal StreetMADE10307C, Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services (or at such other place or places as the holder hereof may designate), at the times set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2002, among the Borrower, the Swingline Lender the other Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent (as it may be amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""; all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), but in no event later than the Termination Date, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Swingline Loans made by the Swingline Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at said office, on the dates and at the rates selected in accordance with Section 2.3(c) of the Credit Agreement.
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
FLEET NATIONAL BANK.
Swingline Lender
Administrative Agent
,
Credit Agreement
        In the event this Note is not paid when due at any stated or accelerated maturity, the Borrower agrees to pay, in addition to the principal and interest, all costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
        All borrowings evidenced by this Note and all payments and prepayments of the principal hereof and interest hereon and the respective dates thereof shall be endorsed by the holder hereof on a schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, or on a continuation thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof; , , that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to make payments of principal and interest in accordance with the terms of this Note.
provided
however
        This Note and the Loans evidenced hereby may be transferred in whole or in part only by registration of such transfer on the Register maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower as provided in Section 10.3(c) of the Credit Agreement.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be duly executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.  
AUTOZONE, INC.
By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
  By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
 
Exhibit 2.4(e)
FORM OF TERM NOTE
         
May 23, 2002
                FOR VALUE RECEIVED, , a Nevada corporation (the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of __________________________, its successors and assigns (the ""), at the office of Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent (the ""), at 100 Federal StreetMADE10307C Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services (or at such other place or places as the holder hereof may designate), at the times set forth in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2002, among the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (as it may be amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""; all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), but in no event later than the Termination Date, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage, and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at said office, on the dates and at the rates selected in accordance with Section 2.4(d) of the Credit Agreement.
AUTOZONE, INC.
Borrower
Lender
Administrative Agent
,
,
Credit Agreement
        Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest as provided in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement.  Further, in the event the payment of all sums due hereunder is accelerated under the terms of the Credit Agreement, this Note, and all other indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
        In the event this Note is not paid when due at any stated or accelerated maturity, the Borrower agrees to pay, in addition to the principal and interest, all costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
        All borrowings evidenced by this Note and all payments and prepayments of the principal hereof and interest hereon and the respective dates thereof shall be endorsed by the holder hereof on a schedule attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, or on a continuation thereof which shall be attached hereto and made a part hereof; , , that any failure to endorse such information on such schedule or continuation thereof shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to make payments of principal and interest in accordance with the terms of this Note.
provided
however
        This Note and the Loans evidenced hereby may be transferred in whole or in part only by registration of such transfer on the Register maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower as provided in Section 10.3(c) of the Credit Agreement.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be duly executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
AUTOZONE, INC.
By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
By:    _____________________
Name:_____________________
Title:    ____________________
Schedule 2.4(f)
FORM OF
INCREMENTAL TERM LOAN COMMITMENT AGREEMENT
            Reference is made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002, as amended and modified from time to time thereafter (the "") among AutoZone, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meanings.
Credit Agreement
        1.    The undersigned Lender hereby confirms its Incremental Term Loan Commitment, effective as of the Effective Date set forth below, to make an incremental Term Loan under the Credit Agreement up to the principal amount of such Term Loan Commitment as set forth below.  If the undersigned Lender is already a Lender under the Credit Agreement, such Lender acknowledges and agrees that such incremental Term Loan is in addition to any existing Term Loan Commitment of such Lender under the Credit Agreement.  If the undersigned Lender is not already a Lender under the Credit Agreement, such Lender hereby acknowledges, agrees and confirms that, by its execution of this Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement, such Lender will, as of the Effective Date, be a party to the Credit Agreement and be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and, to the extent of its Incremental Term Loan Commitment, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder.
        2.    This Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
        3.    This Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which where so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Incremental Term Loan Commitment Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
Amount of Incremental Term Loan Commitment                    $____________________
Effective Date of Incremental Term Loan Commitment            _____________________, 20___    
The terms set forth above are hereby agreed to:
[Lender]
By:    _______________________
Name:_______________________ Title:_________________________  
CONSENTED TO:
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent
By:    _______________________ Name:_______________________ Title:_________________________  
AUTOZONE, INC.
By:    _______________________ Name:_______________________ Title:_________________________
By:    _______________________ Name:_______________________ Title:_________________________
Schedule 3.2
FORM OF NOTICE OF EXTENSION/CONVERSION
   
Fleet National Bank, 100 Federal Street MADE10307C Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services    
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, AutoZone, Inc. (the ""), refers to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among the Borrower, the Lenders, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  The Borrower hereby gives notice pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Credit Agreement that it requests an extension or conversion of a Revolving Loan or a Term Loan (or portion thereof) outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and in connection therewith sets forth below the terms on which such extension or conversion is requested to be made:
Borrower
Credit Agreement
  (A)    Date of Extension or Conversion         (which is the last day of the         the applicable Interest Period)                            _____________________________
(B)    Principal Amount of         Extension or Conversion                                    _____________________________
(C)    Interest rate basis                                            _____________________________
(D)    Interest Period and the         last day thereof                                                _____________________________
        In accordance with the requirements of Section 4.2, the Borrower hereby reaffirms the representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement as provided in subsection (b) of such Section, and confirms that the matters referenced in subsections (c), (d) and (e) of such Section, are true and correct.  
Very truly yours,
 
AUTOZONE, INC.
        The opinions expressed in paragraph (iii) above are based upon the assumption for purposes of such opinions and without independent analysis that notwithstanding the respective choice of law clauses in the Credit Documents, the governing law with respect to each of the Credit Documents is identical in all relevant respects to the law of the State of Tennessee.  Insofar as such opinion relates to the enforceability of any instrument, such enforceability is subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).  The enforceability of the remedies provided under the Credit Agreement may also be limited by applicable laws which may affect the remedies provided therein but which do not in my opinion affect the validity of the Credit Agreement or make such remedies inadequate for the practical realization of the benefits intended to be provided.
By:    ________________________________ Name:    _____________________________ Title:    ______________________________
FORM OF LEGAL OPINION
Schedule 4.1(g)
This is the form of legal opinion delivered by AutoZone in connection with prior AutoZone credit facilities.
[DATE]
Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent,     and each of the Lenders party to the     Credit Agreements referred to below c/o Fleet National Bank Agency Services
100 Federal Street MADE10307C Boston, MA  02110 Attn:  Agency Services
            RE:    AutoZone, Inc. Syndicated Credit Agreement
  Ladies and Gentlemen:
        I am the Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation ("AutoZone"), and am familiar with the transactions contemplated by the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002, among AutoZone, Inc., as Borrower, the several Lenders from time to time party thereto, Fleet National Bank as Administrative Agent, Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent ("Credit Agreement").  Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this opinion which are specifically defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement.
        In connection with the opinions expressed below, I have examined, or caused to be examined, the Credit Documents.  I have relied upon the representations and warranties contained in each of such documents and upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such corporate records, documents and other instruments as in my judgment are relevant to rendering the opinions expressed below.  As to all matters of fact covered by such documents, I have relied, without independent investigation or verification on such documents.  In such examination, I have assumed that each of the parties to the Credit Agreement, other than AutoZone, had and has, as the case may be, full power, authority and legal right to enter into each Credit Document to which it is a party and that each such Credit Document was or has been, as the case may be, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of such parties.
        Based on the foregoing, it is my opinion that:
(i)        Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation or limited partnership under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, with corporate or partnership, as the case may be, power and authority to own its properties and conduct its ordinary course of business;
  (ii)        Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited partnership, as the case may be, for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties, or conducts any business, so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction;
(iii)        Each of the Credit Documents to which AutoZone is a party, was or has been, as the case may be, duly authorized, executed and delivered by AutoZone and together constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of AutoZone enforceable against AutoZone in accordance with its and their terms.
        I do not express any opinion as to matters governed by any law other than the Federal laws of the United States of America, the corporation law of the State of Nevada and the laws of the State of Tennessee.  Further, I express no opinion as to the enforceability of the choice of law provisions contained in any of the Credit Documents.
        This opinion is rendered solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described above.  This opinion may not be used or relied upon by any other person, and may not be disclosed, quoted, filed with a governmental agency or otherwise referred to without my prior written consent except to your bank examiners, auditors and counsel and to prospective transferees of your interests under the Credit Documents and their professional advisers, or as required by law or pursuant to legal process.  
Very truly yours,
Schedule 5.5
Material Litigation
Coalition For a Level Playing Field
AutoZone, Inc., is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled "Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C., v. AutoZone, Inc., Wal-mart Stores, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, Inc., The Pep Boys - Manny, Moe and Jack, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., and Keystone Automotive Operations, Inc.," filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York in February 2000. The case was filed by over 100 plaintiffs, which are principally automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers. The plaintiffs claim in the Complaint that the defendants have knowingly received volume discounts, rebates, slotting and other allowances, fees, free inventory, sham advertising and promotional payments, a share in the manufacturers' profits, and excessive payments for services purportedly performed for the manufacturers in violation of the Robinson-Patman Act. The plaintiffs, in an amended Complaint, stated that they seek substantially more than $1 billion in damages (including statutory trebling) and a permanent injunction prohibiting defendants from committing further violations of the Robinson-Patman Act and from opening any further stores to compete with plaintiffs as long as defendants continue to violate the Act.  AutoZone, Inc., answered the complaint on February 15, 2002, denying the plaintiff's allegations. The parties will now enter into a period of discovery related to the merits of the case.  The Company will vigorously defend against this case, and believes the suit to be without merit and that the Company will ultimately prevail.  The Company currently believes that this matter will not likely result in liabilities material to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
et al.,
Schedule 5.12
Subsidiaries
 
AutoZone, Inc. as of May 20, 2002
Status:                Active
Incorporation    Nevada
 
Federal ID#        62-1482048
Subsidiaries
ADAP, Inc. ALLDATA LLC AutoZone de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. AutoZone Development Corporation 60 Madison Avenue, LLC AutoZone Mississippi Properties, Inc. AutoZone Florida, L.P. AutoZone Properties, Inc. AutoZone Stores, Inc. AutoZone Mississippi, Inc. AutoZone Indiana, L.P. AutoZone Texas, L.P. AutoZone.com, Inc. AutoZoners, Inc. AZ Florida Properties, Inc. Chief Auto Parts Inc. DataZone, S. de R.L. de C.V. ServiceZone, S. de R. L. de C.V. Speedbar, Inc. AZTP Holdings, LLC Zone Compra, S. de R.L. de C.V.
Schedule 6.1(c)
FORM OF OFFICER'S COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
   
        For the fiscal quarter ended _________________, 20___.
        I, ______________________, Title of AutoZone, Inc. (the "") hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, with respect to that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""; all of the defined terms in the Credit Agreement are incorporated herein by reference) among the Borrower, the Lenders party thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Syndication Agent.
[
]
Borrower
Credit Agreement
a.        The company-prepared financial statements which accompany this certificate are true and correct in all material respects and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from normal year-end audit adjustments.
b.        Since ___________ (the date of the last similar certification, or, if none, the Closing Date) no Default or Event of Default has occurred under the Credit Agreement; and
Delivered herewith are detailed calculations demonstrating compliance by the Borrower with the financial covenants contained in Section 6.10 and Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to above.
        This ______ day of ___________, 20__.
                              AUTOZONE, INC.
By:    ________________________________ Name:    _____________________________ Title:    ______________________________
Schedule 7.5
Subsidiary Indebtedness
 
AutoZone, Inc. as of May 4, 2002
 
Subsidiary Indebtedness
Schedule 10.3(b)
FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
 
        THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE dated as of _______________, 200_ is entered into between ________________ ("") and ____________________ ("").
Assignor
Assignee
        Reference is made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002, as amended and modified from time to time thereafter (the "") among AutoZone, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank as Syndication Agent.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meanings.
Credit Agreement
        1.        The Assignor hereby sells and assigns, without recourse, to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, effective as of the Effective Date set forth below, the interests set forth below (the "") in the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, the interests set forth below in the Commitments and outstanding Loans of the Assignor on the effective date of the assignment designated below (the ""), together with unpaid Fees accrued on the assigned Commitments to the Effective Date and unpaid interest accrued on the assigned Loans to the Effective Date.  Each of the Assignor and the Assignee hereby makes and agrees to be bound by all the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 10.3(b) of the Credit Agreement, a copy of which has been received by the Assignee.  From and after the Effective Date (i) the Assignee, if it is not already a Lender under the Credit Agreement, shall be a party to and be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and, to the extent of the interests purchased and assumed by the Assignee under this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent of the interests sold and assigned by the Assignor under this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assigned Interest
Effective Date
        2.        This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
        3.        Terms of Assignment
(a)        Date of Assignment:
(b)        Legal Name of Assignor:
(c)        Legal Name of Assignee:
(d)        Effective Date of Assignment:
(e)        Commitments of Assignee
            after giving effect to this
            Assignment and Acceptance as
            of the Effective Date
    (i)    Term Loan Commitments                 $_________________     (ii)    Revolving Commitment                    $_________________
(f)        Commitments of Assignor
            after giving effect to this
            Assignment and Acceptance as
            of the Effective Date
    (i)    Term Loan Commitment                     $_________________     (ii)    Revolving Commitment                      $_________________
(g)        Commitment Percentages of Assignee
            after giving effect to this
            Assignment and Acceptance
            as of the Effective Date
            (set forth to at least 8 decimals)
    (i)    Term Loan Commitment Percentage    ______________%
    (ii)    Revolving Commitment Percentage    ______________%
(h)        Commitment Percentages of Assignor
            after giving effect to this
            Assignment and Acceptance
            as of the Effective Date
            (set forth to at least 8 decimals)
    (i)    Term Loan Commitment Percentage    ______________%
    (ii)    Revolving Commitment Percentage    ______________%
        4.        This Assignment and Acceptance shall be effective only upon consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, if applicable, delivery to the Administrative Agent of this Assignment and Acceptance together with the transfer fee payable pursuant to Section 10.3(b) in connection herewith and recordation in the Register pursuant to Section 10.3(c) of the terms hereof.
        5.        This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which where so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.  It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Assignment and Acceptance to produce or account for more than one such counterpart.
The terms set forth above are hereby agreed to:
_____________________, as Assignor
By:_____________________ Name:___________________ Title:____________________
_____________________, as Assignee
By:_____________________ Name:___________________ Title:____________________
Notice address of Assignee:  
<<Assignee>>
_____________________ _____________________ Attn:_________________ Telephone: (___) ________ Telecopy: (___) _________
  CONSENTED TO:
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Administrative Agent
By:_____________________ Name:___________________ Title:____________________  
AUTOZONE, INC.
By:_____________________ Name:___________________ Title:____________________
 

        THIS AGREEMENT is between AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation and its various subsidiaries (collectively "AutoZone"), and William C. Rhodes, III an individual ("Employee") dated as of June 20, 2001 ("Effective Date"). For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties are agreed as follows: 1.        AutoZone agrees to employ Employee and Employee agrees to remain in the employment of AutoZone, or a subsidiary or affiliate, until the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement. 2.        This agreement shall be effective as of the Effective Date and shall continue for a period of two years unless it is earlier terminated pursuant to Paragraph 8, 9, or 10. 3.        Employee shall receive a salary from AutoZone as follows:  During the term of this Agreement, Employee shall receive annual compensation of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), subject to increases as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ("Base Salary").  The Base Salary amount shall be paid on a pro-rated basis for all partial years based on a 364 day year. AutoZone reserves the right to increase the Base Salary above the amounts stated above in its sole discretion. All salary shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner that AutoZone's other officers are paid. 4.        During the term of this Agreement, Employee shall receive a bonus up to 50% of his Base Salary in accordance with policies and procedures established by AutoZone's Compensation Committee and Board of Directors which shall be based upon the financial and operational goals and objectives for the Employee and AutoZone established by the Compensation Committee for each of AutoZone's fiscal years ("Target") in accordance with AutoZone's Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.  The Target is established at the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee and Board of Directors and is subject to review and revision at any time upon notification to the Employee.  All bonuses shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner that AutoZone's other officers are paid. 5.        Employee shall serve as AutoZone's Senior Vice President performing such duties as AutoZone's Board of Directors may direct from time to time and as are normally associated with such a position. AutoZone may, in its sole discretion, alter, expand or curtail the services to be performed by Employee or position held by Employee from time to time, without adjustment in compensation. Employee shall devote his entire time and attention to AutoZone's business. During the term of this Agreement, Employee shall not engage in any other business activity that conflicts with his duties with AutoZone, regardless of whether it is pursued for gain or profit. Employee may, however, invest his assets in or serve on the Board of Directors of other companies so long as they do not require Employee's services in the day to day operation of their affairs and do not violate AutoZone's conflict of interest policy.  Notwithstanding, Employee may from time to time invest deminimus amounts in the publicly traded stock of Competitors upon written approval of AutoZone's General Counsel. 6.        Other benefits to be received by Employee from AutoZone shall be the ordinary benefits received by AutoZone's other executive officers, which may be changed by AutoZone in its sole discretion from time to time. 7.        Employee understands that all salary, bonus and other benefits will be subject to reduction for amounts required to be withheld by law as taxes and otherwise. 8.        9.        Employee may terminate this Agreement at anytime upon written notice to AutoZone. Upon such termination, Employee's employment shall terminate and Employee shall cease to receive any further salary, benefits, or bonus, and all stock options granted shall be governed by the respective stock option agreement(s) between the Employee and AutoZone. 10.        Employee may terminate this Agreement upon a Change of Control of AutoZone by giving written notice to AutoZone within sixty days of the occurrence of a Change of Control.  Upon giving such notice to AutoZone, Employees employment shall terminate and Employee shall cease to receive any payments or benefits pursuant this Agreement and all stock options held by Employee shall be governed by the respective stock option agreement(s).  Any of the following events shall constitute a "Change of Control":  (a) the acquisition after the date hereof, in one or more transactions, of beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-3(a)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), by any person or entity or any group of persons or entities who constitute a group (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) under the Exchange Act) of any securities such that as a result of such acquisition such person, entity or group beneficially owns AutoZone, Inc.'s then outstanding voting securities representing 51% or more of the total combined voting power entitled to vote on a regular basis for a majority of the board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc. or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of AutoZone (including, without limitation, by way of merger, consolidation, lease or transfer) in a transaction where AutoZone or the beneficial owners (as defined in Rule 13d-3(a)(1) under the Exchange Act) of capital stock of AutoZone do not receive (i) voting securities representing a majority of the total combined voting power entitled to vote on a regular basis for the board of directors of the acquiring entity or of an affiliate which controls the acquiring entity or (ii) securities representing a majority of the total combined equity interest in the acquiring entity, if other than a corporation; provided however, that the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph 10 shall not apply to any transfer, sale or disposition of shares of capital stock of AutoZone to any person or persons who are affiliates of AutoZone on the date hereof. 11.        Any termination of Employee's service as an officer of AutoZone shall be deemed a termination of Employee's service on all boards and as an officer of all subsidiaries of AutoZone. 12.        Employee agrees that he will not, for the period commencing on the termination date of this Agreement pursuant to Paragraph 8 or 9 (whichever is applicable) of this Agreement and ending on    
EXECUTION COPY 8/16/2001
EMPLOYMENT AND NON-COMPETE AGREEMENT
Employment. 
Term. 
Salary. 
Bonus. 
Duties. 
Other Benefits. 
Taxes. 
Termination by AutoZone.
(a) .  AutoZone may terminate this Agreement without Cause at any time upon notice to Employee. In such event, Employee shall continue to be paid his then current Base Salary (on a pro-rated basis in the same manner as Employee is then receiving his base salary) until two years after the termination date ("Continuation Period").  During the Continuation Period, Employee shall not receive any bonus payments.  During the Continuation Period, Employee shall continue to be an employee of AutoZone or a subsidiary of AutoZone available to perform such services as may be requested by the Chief Executive Officer of AutoZone, and Employee's stock options shall continue to vest and may be exercised in the manner set forth in the respective stock option agreements until the end of the Continuation Period, at which time Employee's employment with AutoZone shall be terminated and further stock option exercise and vesting shall be governed by the terms of the stock option agreement.  During the Continuation Period, Employee shall receive such other benefits as other employees of AutoZone, including, but not limited to, health and life insurance, on the same terms and conditions.  AutoZone shall pay Employee a prorated bonus for the fiscal year in which this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this paragraph calculated based on the period of time elapsed during such fiscal year until this Agreement is terminated and the formula established by the Compensation Committee for officers for that fiscal year.  Said bonus shall be paid when other officer bonuses are paid for that fiscal year.  AutoZone shall have no other obligations other than those stated herein upon the termination of this Agreement and Employee hereby releases AutoZone from any and all obligations and claims except those as are specifically set forth herein.
Without Cause
(b) .  AutoZone shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and Employee's employment with AutoZone and all subsidiaries of AutoZone for Cause at any time.  Upon such termination for Cause, Employee shall have no right to receive any compensation, salary, or bonus and shall immediately cease to receive any benefits (other than those as may be required pursuant to the AutoZone Pension Plan or by law) and any stock options shall be governed by the respective stock option agreements in effect between the Employee and AutoZone at that time.  "Cause" shall mean the willful engagement by the Employee in conduct which is demonstrably or materially injurious to AutoZone or any subsidiary of AutoZone, monetarily or otherwise.  For this purpose, no act or failure to act by the Employee shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of AutoZone or any subsidiary of AutoZone.
With Cause
Termination by Employee. 
Termination by Employee upon a Change of Control. 
Effect of Termination. 
Non-Compete. 
(i) the date two years after said termination date of this Agreement if either Employee voluntarily terminates this Agreement or this Agreement is terminated by AutoZone for Cause or
(ii) the end of the Continuation Period if this Agreement is terminated by AutoZone without Cause,
be engaged in or concerned with, directly or indirectly, any business related to or involved in the retail sale of auto parts to "DIY" customers, or the wholesale or retail sale of auto parts to commercial installers in any state, province, territory or foreign country in which AutoZone or any subsidiary of AutoZone operates now or shall operate during the term set forth in this non-compete paragraph (herein called "Competitor"), as an employee, director, consultant, beneficial or record owner, partner, joint venturer, officer or agent of the Competitor. The parties acknowledge and agree that the time, scope, geographic area and other provisions of this Non-Compete section have been specifically negotiated by sophisticated commercial parties and specifically hereby agree that such time, scope, geographic area and other provisions are reasonable under the circumstances and are in exchange for the obligations undertaken by AutoZone pursuant to this Agreement.  Further, Employee agrees not to hire, for himself or any other entity, encourage anyone or entity to hire, or entice away from AutoZone any employee of AutoZone or any subsidiary of AutoZone during the term of this non-compete obligation. If at any time a court of competent jurisdiction holds that any portion of this Non-Compete section is unenforceable for any reason, then Employee shall forfeit his right to any further salary, bonus, or benefits from AutoZone during any Continuation Period.  This Paragraph 12 shall not apply to a termination by Employee pursuant to Paragraph 10. 13.        Unless otherwise required by law, Employee shall hold in confidence any proprietary or confidential information obtained by him during his employment with AutoZone, which shall include, but not be limited to, information regarding AutoZone's present and future business plans, vendors, systems, operations and personnel. Confidential information shall not include information: (a) publicly disclosed by AutoZone; (b) rightfully received by Employee from a third party without restrictions on disclosure (c) approved for release or disclosure by AutoZone; or (d) produced or disclosed pursuant to applicable laws, regulation or court order.  Employee acknowledges that all such confidential or proprietary information is and shall remain the sole property of AutoZone and all embodiments of such information shall remain with AutoZone. 14.        .  The parties further agree that if, at any time, despite the express agreement of the parties hereto, Employee violates the provisions of this Agreement by violating the Non-Compete or Confidentiality sections, or by failing to perform his obligations under this Agreement, AutoZone may cease paying any further salary or bonus in addition to any other rights AutoZone may have at law or equity.  In the event of breach by Employee of any provision of this Agreement, Employee acknowledges that such breach will cause irreparable damage to AutoZone, the exact amount of which will be difficult or impossible to ascertain, and that remedies at law for any such breach will be inadequate.  Accordingly, AutoZone shall be entitled, in addition to any other rights or remedies existing in its favor, to obtain, without the necessity for any bond or other security, specific performance and/or injunctive relief in order to enforce, or prevent breach of any such provision. 15.        If Employee should die or become disabled (such that he is no longer capable of performing his duties) during the term of this Agreement, then all salary and bonus shall cease as of the date of his death or disability, all stock options shall be governed by the terms of the respective stock option agreements, and Employee shall receive disability or death benefits as may be provided under AutoZone's then existing policies and procedures related to disability or death of AutoZone employees. 16.        Any waiver of any breach of this Agreement by AutoZone shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by Employee. No waiver shall be valid unless in writing and signed by an authorized officer of AutoZone. 17.        Employee acknowledges that his services are unique and personal. Accordingly, Employee shall not assign his rights or delegate his duties or obligations under this Agreement. Employee's rights and obligations under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon AutoZone successors and assigns. AutoZone may assign this Agreement to any wholly-owned subsidiary operating for the use and benefit of AutoZone. 18.        This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties related to the matters discussed herein. It may not be changed orally but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification, extension, or discharge is sought. 19.        This Agreement shall be governed and construed by the laws of the State of Tennessee, without regard to its choice of law rules.  The parties agree that the only proper venue for any dispute under this Agreement shall be in the state or federal courts located in Shelby County, Tennessee. 20.        Sections 8, 12, 13, 14 and 19 of this Agreement shall survive any termination of this Agreement or Employee's employment with AutoZone (including, without limitation termination pursuant to Paragraphs 8, 9, or 10). IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the respective parties execute this Agreement. AUTOZONE, INC.                                                    EMPLOYEE
Confidentiality. 
Breach by Employee
Death of Employee or Disability. 
Waiver. 
Assignment. 
Entire Agreement. 
Jurisdiction. 
Survival. 
By:  _______                                   Title:                                                                                    Date  
  /s/ Steve Odland
   William C. Rhodes, III
  CEO                            
   8/25/01
By:  Title:  
  /s/ Harry L. Goldsmith    
  Sr. V.P. & General Counsel


