FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20020925115101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
             
Washington, D.C. 20549  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)  
September 25, 2002
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
AUTOZONE, INC.
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
123 South Front Street
Memphis, Tennessee 38103
Registrant's telephone number, including area code  
(901) 495-6500
(not applicable) Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report.
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c)   Exhibits
                99.1 Press Release dated September 25, 2002.                 99.2 Corporate Governance Principles of AutoZone, Inc.
Item 9.  Regulation FD Disclosure
        On September 25, 2002, the company made the announcements contained in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
SIGNATURES
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.    
AUTOZONE, INC.
                                                                                By: 
/s/ Michael G. Archbold
                                                                                Michael G. Archbold
                                                                                Senior Vice President and
                                                                                Chief Financial Officer-Customer Satisfaction
Dated:      September 25, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX
99.1         Press Release dated September 25, 2002
99.2         Corporate Governance Principles of AutoZone, Inc.

   
123 South Front Street  Memphis, TN 38103-3607  (901) 495-6500 Fax: (901) 495-8300  
 
 
 
                                                                                                               Media Contact:  Ray Pohlman, (901) 495-7962                                                                                                                  Financial Contact:  Jay Cook, (901) 495-7005
News:
AUTOZONE FOURTH QUARTER EPS UP 62% OVER PRIOR YEAR ADJUSTED EPS;
SAME STORE SALES UP 7%;
TOTAL FISCAL 2002 EPS OF $4.00;
ROIC IMPROVES TO 19.8%
Memphis, Tenn. (September 25, 2002) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE: AZO), today reported fourth quarter earnings per share of $1.73, a 62% increase from earnings per share of $1.07 before restructuring and impairment charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. Including the charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, EPS increased 621% from $0.24. Sales for the fourth fiscal quarter (17 weeks) ended August 31, 2002, increased 12% to $1.84 billion from $1.64 billion reported for the year ago quarter (16 weeks). Excluding the fiscal 2001 sales of TruckPro, which was sold in December, total sales increased 16%. Same store sales, or sales for domestic auto parts stores open at least one year, increased 6.6% during the quarter. Gross margin for the quarter, as a percent of sales, increased 1.94 percentage points to 45.7%. Net operating expenses were 28.8% of sales, resulting in a record quarterly operating margin of 16.9%.
For the year (53 weeks), AutoZone reported diluted earnings per share of $4.00, an increase of 68% from $2.38 in fiscal 2001 (52 weeks), excluding the nonrecurring charges in the prior year. Including the charges, reported earnings per share were up 160%. The $4.00 EPS is double the $2.00 per share earned in fiscal 2000. Annual sales rose 10.5% to $5.32 billion from $4.82 billion in the prior year; excluding the sales of TruckPro, total sales increased 13%. Same store sales for the year increased 8.8%. Gross margin as a percent of sales increased by 2.19 percentage points to 44.6%. Net operating expenses declined to 30.1% of sales, resulting in a record annual operating margin of 14.5%. Driven by strong earnings and declining working capital, return on invested capital reached 19.8%, while cash flow before share repurchases was $730 million.
"We are very pleased with our exceptional performance this year," said Steve Odland, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "It took a concerted effort from all AutoZoners to make this happen. Clearly our focus on reminding consumers to maintain their cars and beginning to capture the $60 billion annual undone maintenance has been successful."
In the fourth quarter, AutoZone opened 30 new auto parts stores in the U.S., replaced 3 and closed 14. For the year, AutoZone opened 102 new auto parts stores in the U.S., replaced 15 and closed 53 for an end-of-year store count of 3,068. In addition, 12 new auto parts stores were opened in Mexico in the fourth quarter, for a total of 18 new stores in Mexico for the year. At year end, AutoZone had a total of 39 stores in Mexico.
During the quarter, AutoZone's Board of Directors authorized an increase in the share repurchase program of $300 million to an aggregate authorization of $2.3 billion. As of the end of the fourth quarter, aggregate share repurchases were $2.086 billion or 61.9 million shares, including $150 million or 2.2 million shares under forward purchase contracts. For the quarter, AutoZone repurchased 4.3 million shares at a cost of $287 million or $66.13 per share. For the year, AutoZone repurchased 12.6 million shares at a cost of $699 million or $55.51 per share. Subsequent to year end, the company purchased 1.1 million shares in partial settlement of the forward purchase contract outstanding at August 31, 2002, at an average cost of $69.91 per share.
Steve Odland, Chairman and CEO and Michael Archbold, CFO, confirm they will be certifying AutoZone's fiscal 2002 results when AutoZone files its Form 10-K, which is due November 29, 2002.
AutoZone will host a one-hour conference call Wednesday, September 25, 2002, beginning at 9 a.m. (CDT) to discuss this press release and the outlook for fiscal 2003. Investors may listen to the conference call live and review supporting slides on the AutoZone website, , by clicking "About Us," "Investor Relations," "Conference Calls," or by going directly to . The call will also be available by dialing (712) 271-3887. A replay of the call and slides will be available on AutoZone's website. In addition, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (402)998-1323 through Tuesday, October 1, 2002.
www.AutoZone.com
http://www.AutoZone.com/Investors
As of August 31, 2002, AutoZone sells auto and light truck parts, chemicals and accessories through 3,068 AutoZone stores in 44 states plus the District of Columbia, 39 AutoZone stores in Mexico and online at AutoZone.com. AutoZone also sells automotive diagnostic and repair software through ALLDATA, and
alldatadiy.com.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, business strategies and future performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, competition, product demand, the economy, inflation, gasoline prices, consumer debt levels, war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity, and availability of commercial transportation. Please refer to the Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 2002, for more information related to these risks. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results. AutoZone undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this press release to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
AutoZone's 4th Quarter Highlights- Fiscal 2002
(in thousands, except per share data)  
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands)  
Selected Balance Sheet Information
(in thousands)  
Selected Cash Flow Information
(in thousands)  
Other Selected Financial Information
(in thousands, except per share data)  
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations - Before Restructuring Charges
(in thousands)  
Selected Balance Sheet Information - Before Restructuring Charges
AutoZone's 4th Quarter  Fiscal 2002
Selected Operating Highlights
 
Store Count & Square Footage
 
:
Sales & Inventory Statistics  (Domestic auto parts)
 
*  Excludes extra week of sales

        The Board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc., has adopted these Corporate Governance Principles on June 5, 2001.
AUTOZONE, INC.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES
ADOPTION
BOARD MISSION & OBJECTIVES
        Mission Statement
        AutoZone's primary objective is to maximize long-term stockholder value, while adhering to the laws of the jurisdictions wherein it operates and at all times observing the highest ethical standards.
        Corporate Authority & Responsibility
        All corporate authority resides in the Board of Directors as the representative of the stockholders. Authority is delegated to management by the Board in order to implement AutoZone's mission. Such delegated authority includes the authorization of spending limits and the authority to hire employees and terminate their services. The Board retains responsibility to recommend candidates to the stockholders for election to the Board of Directors. The Board retains responsibility for selection and evaluation of the CEO, oversight of the succession plan, determination of senior management compensation, approval of the annual budget, assurance of adequate systems, procedures and controls, as well as assisting in the preparation and approval of the strategic plan. Additionally, the Board provides advice and counsel to senior management. The Board may exercise its authority through committees of the Board.
DIRECTORS
        Personal Characteristics & Core Competencies of Directors:
 
        Individual Directors should possess all of the following personal characteristics:
        Core Competencies of the Board as a Whole
 
        To adequately fulfill the Board's complex roles, from monitoring managerial performance to responding to crises and approving AutoZone's strategic plan, a host of core competencies need to be represented on the Board. The Board as a whole should possess the following core competencies, with each member contributing knowledge, experience and skills in one or more domains:
        Changes in Professional Responsibility
        The Board should consider whether a change in an individual's professional responsibilities directly or indirectly impacts that person's ability to fulfill directorship obligations. All Directors should submit a resignation as a matter of course upon retirement, a change in employer, or other significant change in their professional roles and responsibilities. If the Board believes that a director will continue to make a contribution to the organization, the continued membership of that director may be supported.
        Identification and Recruitment of Directors
        One of the tasks of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is to identify and recruit candidates to serve on the Board of Directors. A list of candidates shall be presented to the Board for nomination and to the stockholders for consideration. The committee may, at its discretion, seek third-party resources to assist in the process. The CEO will be included in the process on a non-voting basis. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will make the final recommendation to the Board.
        Independent Directors
        A substantial majority of the Board of Directors should be independent. An independent director is defined as a director who:
        Outside Directorships
        The members of the Board acknowledge that significant time is required to be a fully participating and effective member of AutoZone's Board of Directors. Therefore, each independent director should not hold more than two or three directorships of public companies other than AutoZone. The CEO should not be a member on more than one or two Boards of other public companies, and AutoZone's other executive officers should not be members of more than one other Board of a public company. A Director should notify the Secretary prior to accepting a new position on another Board in order that the Secretary may examine the relationship for a potential conflict of interest.
        Compensation of Directors
        Outside Directors are compensated in accordance with the Director Compensation Plan and the Director Stock Option Plan as may be in effect from time to time. The Board believes that a significant portion of a director's compensation should be in common stock to further the direct correlation of directors' and stockholders' interests.
        The Compensation Committee shall review independent director compensation from time to time and recommend to the full Board any changes in compensation as the committee may deem necessary.
        Directors that are officers or employees shall not receive any additional compensation for their service as Directors. Outside Directors shall not receive a pension solely as a result of service as a Director.
        Direct Investment in AutoZone Stock by Directors
        Since a significant ownership stake leads to a stronger alignment of interests between directors and stockholders, each director is required to personally invest at least $100,000 in company stock within three years of joining the board. Exceptions to this requirement may only be made by the board under compelling mitigating circumstances.
        Service Limitations of Directors
        A Director may not stand for reelection after age 70, but need not resign until the end of his or her term. The Board may, however, upon evaluation of a Director that has reached 70 years of age, in its discretion ask such Director to remain on the Board in extraordinary circumstances if the Board believes that such Director will continue to make significant contributions to the work of the Board.
        No director shall be eligible to be reelected to the Board of Directors after serving on the Board for 15 years. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, Directors serving on the Board as of the first date of the adoption of these Corporate Governance Principles shall be eligible to be reelected as a Director until the first annual meeting of stockholders held after the passage of 15 years from the date of first adoption of these Corporate Governance Principles.
        In order to retain freshness in the process and to give new management the unfettered ability to provide new leadership, a retiring CEO shall not continue to serve on the Board except in extraordinary circumstances.
        Conflict of Interest
        From time to time, an issue being considered by the Board may present, or may give the appearance of presenting, a conflict of interest for a Director. Each Director should take appropriate steps to assure that in each matter considered that the Director is disinterested with respect to that matter, other than the interests of AutoZone and its stockholders. Any Director faced with any potential conflict should disclose any such potential conflict to the Secretary and the Chairman and should not participate in discussions or votes on such issue unless a majority of the Board determines, after consultation with counsel, that no conflict of interest exists as to such matter.
        Directors that are not independent Directors shall not participate in the Board's decision of selection, removal, or performance assessment of the CEO.
BOARD ORGANIZATION
        Board Size
        In general, smaller boards are more cohesive, work better together and tend to be more effective monitors than larger boards. Ideally, the Board should be comprised of six to ten outside Directors and one to two Directors who also are employees or officers.
        Committees
        All major decisions will be considered by the Board as a whole. As a consequence, the committee structure of the Board is limited to those committees considered to be basic to or required for the operation of AutoZone as a publicly-owned entity. Standing committees shall include audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance. The audit, compensation, and nominating and corporate governance committees shall be composed solely of independent Directors. The Board may form other committees as it determines appropriate. Each committee shall operate in accordance with its charter as adopted by the Board. Committee members and chairs shall be appointed annually by the Board in accordance with the charter of each committee.
BOARD OPERATIONS
        Meetings
        The agenda for each Board meeting shall be determined by the Chairman. Each Director is encouraged to suggest agenda items.
        The Board shall meet at least four times per fiscal year in accordance with a meeting schedule that is approved by the Board. The Board may also meet at such other times in meetings which may be called in accordance with AutoZone's Bylaws.
       Other members of management may attend non-executive meetings of the Board at the invitation of the Chairman.
        Communications
        Directors have full access to the Chairman and CEO and senior officers reporting directly to the CEO and to information about the corporation's operations. Directors should refrain from giving strategic or operating direction to members of management outside the scope of full Board or committee responsibility and accountability.
        Board Ability to Retain Advisors
        The Board shall retain advisors as it believes to be appropriate. If management is retaining advisors to the Board, such decision must be ratified by the Board.
        Material in Advance of Meetings
        The Board must be given sufficient information to fully exercise its governance functions. This information comes from a variety of sources, including management reports, a comparison of performance to plans, security analysts' reports, articles in various business publications, etc. Generally, Board members will receive information prior to Board meetings so they will have an opportunity to reflect properly on the items to be considered at the meeting.
        The Board will ensure that adequate time is provided for full discussion of important items and that management presentations are scheduled in a manner that permits a substantial proportion of Board meeting time to be available for open discussion.
        Executive Session
        The non-management Directors should meet privately in executive session from time to time to review the performance of the CEO and other executive officers. The non-management Directors should meet in executive session at the end of each Board meeting to consider other issues that they may determine from time to time, without the presence of any member of management. A "non-management" Director is a Director that is not an officer of AutoZone.
        Evaluation of the CEO
        The selection and evaluation of the chief executive officer and concurrence with the CEO's selection and evaluation of the corporation's top management team are the most important function of the Board. In its broader sense, "selection and evaluation" includes considering compensation, planning for succession and, when appropriate, replacing the CEO or other members of the top management team. The performance of the CEO will be reviewed at least annually solely by the outside Directors without the presence of the CEO or other inside Directors. The evaluation of the CEO shall be led by the chair of the compensation committee. The Board should have an understanding with the CEO with respect to criteria on which he or she will be evaluated, and the results of the evaluation will be communicated to the CEO.
        Succession and Management Development
        The CEO will report annually to the Board on AutoZone's program for succession and management development.
        CEO succession is a Board-driven, collaborative process. Although the current CEO has an important role to play, the Board must own the plan for succession while collaborating with the CEO in deciding the timing and the necessary qualifications for making a final decision.
       Outside Communication
        The Board believes that management speaks for the company. In accordance with this philosophy, Directors should defer to the Chairman or AutoZone's public relations department when requested to make any comments regarding AutoZone or its business.
       Annual Election of Directors
        In order to create greater alignment between the Board's and our stockholders' interests and to promote greater accountability to the stockholders, Directors shall be elected annually.
PERIODIC REVIEW OF GUIDELINES
Amended:        December 13, 2001                        August 27, 2002
        These guidelines shall be reviewed periodically by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and any amendments shall be presented to the Board for adoption.


