FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20041208071743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On December 8, 2004, AutoZone, Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended November 20, 2004, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report pursuant to Item 2.02:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 8, 2004

News:
For immediate release
Memphis, Tenn. (December 8, 2004)  AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE: AZO) today reported sales of $1.286 billion for its first fiscal quarter (12 weeks) ended November 20, 2004, up 0.3% over fiscal 2003. Same store sales, or sales for domestic stores open at least one year, decreased 3% for the quarter. Gross profit, as a percentage of sales, for the quarter improved by 44 basis points while operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, increased by 40 basis points. This resulted in an operating margin of 16.8%, up 4 basis points from last year. Operating profit increased 0.6% over the prior year.
Net income, as a percentage of sales, for the quarter was up slightly over the same period last year to $123 million, and diluted earnings per share, reflecting net income and the benefit of the company's share repurchase program, increased 12.7% to $1.52 per share from $1.35 per share reported in the year-ago quarter.
Return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters increased to 24.9% from 24.0% the previous year.
Under its ongoing share repurchase program, AutoZone repurchased 0.4 million shares of its common stock for $30 million during the first quarter, at an average price of $84 per share. Since 1998, cumulative share repurchases have totaled $3.7 billion, or 82.6 million shares at an average price of $45 per share.
For the quarter, gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 48.3% (versus 47.8% last year) while operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 31.4% (versus 31.0% last year). However, both the prior year's gross profit, as a percentage of sales, and operating profit, as a percentage of sales, benefited 125 basis points from a $16 million pre-tax benefit due to warranty negotiations. The opening of 28 new AutoZone stores along with higher utility and fuel costs contributed to the increase in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales.
The Company's gross inventory levels (the reported balance sheet inventory, which is total inventory less supplier owned Pay On Scan inventory) per store as of November 20, 2004, were $464 thousand versus $459 thousand last year. Net inventory, defined as gross inventory less accounts payable, declined on a per store level to $40 thousand from $44 thousand last year.
"Our business was challenged by the high gas prices this past quarter, as our customers continued to manage their expenditures closely and hold off on doing some preventative maintenance," said Steve Odland, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer. "Our financial model is strong, however, and we have continued to increase earnings and operating cash flow while simultaneously improving our business model by removing risks associated with interest rate fluctuations and warranty liability. This consistency in cash flows will continue to be our ongoing focus, while we introduce many initiatives that, we believe, can help us grow same store sales over time."
During the quarter ended November 20, 2004, AutoZone opened 23 new stores, re-opened 5 stores under the AutoZone brand formerly operated as ABC Auto Parts, a regional auto parts chain, and replaced 1 store in the U.S. while additionally opening 1 new store in Mexico. As of November 20, 2004, the Company had 3,448 domestic stores and 64 stores in Mexico. AutoZone is the nation's leading retailer of automotive
parts and accessories. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products. Many domestic stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers and service stations. AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software. On the web, AutoZone sells diagnostic and repair information and auto and light truck parts through www.autozone.com. AutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.
AutoZone will host a one-hour conference call this morning, Wednesday, December 8, 2004, beginning at 9:00 a.m. (CST) to discuss the fourth quarter results. Investors may listen to the conference call live and review supporting slides on the AutoZone corporate website, www.autozoneinc.com by clicking "Investor Relations," "Conference Calls". The call will also be available by dialing (210) 839-8923. A replay of the call and slides will be available on AutoZone's website. In addition, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (402) 220-4124 through Wednesday, December 15, 2004, at 10:59 p.m. (CST).
This release includes certain financial information not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This information should not be considered a substitute for any measures derived in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the Company's comparative year-to-year operating results. Management manages the Company's debt levels to a ratio of adjusted debt to EBITDAR, as shown on the attached tables. This is important information for the Company's management of its debt levels. We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expect," "estimate," "project," "positioned," "strategy," and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: competition; product demand; the economy; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; raw material costs of our suppliers; gasoline prices; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and our ability to continue to negotiate pay-on-scan and other arrangements with our vendors. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and such events could materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results. Please refer to the Risk Factors section of AutoZone's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 28, 2004, for more information related to those risks. .
Contact Information:
Financial: Brian Campbell at (901) 495-7005, brian.campbell@autozone.com Media: Ray Pohlman at (901) 495-7962, ray.pohlman@autozone.com
AutoZone's 1st Quarter Highlights - Fiscal 2005
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 1st Quarter
(in thousands, except per share data)
Selected Balance Sheet Information
(in thousands)
Selected Cash Flow Information
(in thousands)
Other Selected Financial Information
(in thousands)
AutoZone's 1st Quarter Fiscal 2005 Selected Operating Highlights
Store Count & Square Footage
Sales Statistics (Domestic Stores Only):
Inventory Statistics (Total Stores):


