FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20041229141811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     The information set forth under Item 2.03 below is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
     AutoZone has other commercial relationships with certain parties to the Credit Agreement described in Item 2.03. Fleet National Bank is the administrative agent, and several of the lenders are also lenders, under AutoZone's five-year and 364-day revolving credit facilities dated as of May 17, 2004. Additionally, from time to time, several of the lenders or their affiliates furnish general financing and banking services to AutoZone.
     On December 23, 2004, AutoZone, Inc. ("AutoZone") entered into a Credit Agreement for a $300 million, 5-year term loan with Fleet National Bank ("Fleet") as administrative agent, Wachovia Bank, National Association as syndication agent, and a syndicate of financial institutions (including Fleet and Wachovia) as lenders, arranged by Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC as sole book manager and joint lead arranger and Banc of America Securities LLC as joint lead arranger.
     The term loan may consist of, at AutoZone's election, base rate loans, Eurodollar loans or a combination thereof. Interest accrues on base rate loans at a base rate per annum equal to the higher of Fleet's prime rate or the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar rate plus the applicable percentage, which can range from 40 basis points to 112.5 basis points, depending upon AutoZone's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating, as published by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and/or Moody's Investors Service, Inc. At AutoZone's current ratings, the applicable percentage on Eurodollar loans is 50 basis points. AutoZone has provided notice to the Administrative Agent of its intent to draw the full principal amount of $300 million as a Eurodollar loan, which pursuant to the Credit Agreement, will be funded on December 30, 2004, subject to the conditions contained in the Credit Agreement.
     AutoZone may select interest periods of one, two, three or six months for Eurodollar loans, subject to availability. Interest is payable at the end of the selected interest period, but no less frequently than quarterly. AutoZone has the option to extend loans into subsequent interest period(s) or convert them into loans of another interest rate type. The entire unpaid principal amount of the term loan will be due and payable in full on December 23, 2009, when the facility terminates.
     AutoZone may prepay the term loan in whole or in part at any time without penalty, subject to reimbursement of the lenders' breakage and redeployment costs in the case of prepayment of Eurodollar borrowings. If a change in control occurs, each lender has the right to require AutoZone to prepay its outstanding portion of the term loan, plus
Table of Contents
any accrued and unpaid fees and interest to the date of prepayment. Each lender must determine whether to require such prepayment during a 20-day period following notice from the Administrative Agent.
     The Credit Facility contains customary covenants for transactions of this type. The financial covenants include covenants that AutoZone will not permit the ratio of its "Consolidated Adjusted Funded Debt" to "Consolidated EBITDAR" to be greater than 3.00:1.00 at the end of any fiscal quarter and will maintain a minimum ratio of "Consolidated EBITDAR" to "Consolidated Interest Expense plus Consolidated Rents" of 2.50:1.00. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default, including cross defaults to other obligations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated and become due and payable immediately.
     AutoZone entered into an interest rate swap agreement on December 29, 2004, to effectively fix the interest rate of the term loan at 4.55%.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report pursuant to Items 1.01 and 2.03:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 29, 2004
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1 EXECUTION COPY =============================================================================== Published CUSIP Number: ________________ CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of December 23, 2004 among AUTOZONE, INC., as Borrower, THE SEVERAL LENDERS FROM TIME TO TIME PARTY HERETO AND FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Administrative Agent and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Syndication Agent -------------------------------------------------------------- WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC, as Joint Lead Arranger and Sole Book Manager BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC as Joint Lead Arranger and CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH, BNP PARIBAS and REGIONS BANK as Co-Documentation Agents
TABLE OF CONTENTS - i -
5.14 Disclosure........................................................ 34 SECTION 6 AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS................................................. 34 6.1 Information Covenants............................................. 34 6.2 Preservation of Existence and Franchises.......................... 38 6.3 Books and Records................................................. 38 6.4 Compliance with Law............................................... 38 6.5 Payment of Taxes and Other Indebtedness........................... 38 6.6 Insurance......................................................... 39 6.7 Maintenance of Property........................................... 39 6.8 Use of Proceeds................................................... 39 6.9 Audits/Inspections................................................ 39 6.10 Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR Ratio.................................... 39 6.11 Interest Coverage Ratio........................................... 39 SECTION 7 NEGATIVE COVENANTS.................................................... 40 7.1 Liens............................................................. 40 7.2 Nature of Business................................................ 40 7.3 Consolidation, Merger, Sale or Purchase of Assets, etc............ 40 7.4 Fiscal Year....................................................... 42 7.5 Subsidiary Indebtedness........................................... 42 SECTION 8 EVENTS OF DEFAULT..................................................... 43 8.1 Events of Default................................................. 43 8.2 Acceleration; Remedies............................................ 45 SECTION 9 AGENCY PROVISIONS..................................................... 45 9.1 Appointment and Authority......................................... 45 9.2 Rights as a Lender................................................ 46 9.3 Exculpatory Provisions............................................ 46 9.4 Reliance by Administrative Agent.................................. 47 9.5 Delegation of Duties.............................................. 47 9.6 Resignation of Administrative Agent............................... 48 9.7 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders............ 48 9.8 No Other Duties, Etc.............................................. 49 9.9 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim..................... 49 SECTION 10 MISCELLANEOUS........................................................ 50 10.1 Notices........................................................... 50 10.2 Right of Set-Off.................................................. 52 10.3 Benefit of Agreement.............................................. 52 10.4 No Waiver; Remedies Cumulative.................................... 56 10.5 Payment of Expenses, etc.......................................... 56 10.6 Amendments, Waivers and Consents.................................. 57 10.7 Counterparts...................................................... 58 10.8 Headings.......................................................... 58 10.9 Survival.......................................................... 58 10.10 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Venue.................. 58
- ii -
10.11 Severability...................................................... 59 10.12 Entirety.......................................................... 59 10.13 Binding Effect; Termination....................................... 59 10.14 Confidentiality................................................... 60 10.15 Source of Funds................................................... 60 10.16 Conflict.......................................................... 61
SCHEDULES Schedule 1.1(a) Applicable Percentage Schedule 1.1(b) Form of Notice of Borrowing Schedule 2.1(a) Lenders Schedule 2.1(e) Form of Term Note Schedule 3.2 Form of Notice of Extension/Conversion Schedule 4.1(d) Form of Legal Opinion Schedule 5.5 Material Litigation Schedule 5.12 Subsidiaries Schedule 6.1(c) Form of Officer's Compliance Certificate Schedule 7.5 Subsidiary Indebtedness Schedule 10.3(b) Form of Assignment and Acceptance - iii -
CREDIT AGREEMENT THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of December 23, 2004 (the "Credit Agreement"), is by and among AUTOZONE, INC., a Nevada corporation (the "Borrower"), the several lenders identified on the signature pages hereto and such other lenders as may from time to time become a party hereto (the "Lenders"), FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"), and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as syndication agent (in such capacity, the "Syndication Agent"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a $300,000,000 term loan to the Borrower, as more particularly described herein; WHEREAS, the Lenders have agreed to provide such term loan on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: SECTION 1 DEFINITIONS 1.1 DEFINITIONS. As used in this Credit Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below unless the context otherwise requires: "Administrative Agent" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the heading hereof, together with any successors or assigns. "Administrative Agent's Fee Letter" means that certain letter agreement, dated as of December 2, 2004, between the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, as amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time. "Administrative Agent's Fees" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5. "Administrative Questionnaire" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
"Affiliate" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person (i) directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person or (ii) directly or indirectly owning or holding five percent (5%) or more of the equity interest in such Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agency Services Address" means Fleet National Bank, 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor, NY5-526-28-01, New York, NY 10019, Attn: Agency Services, or such other address as may be identified by written notice from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower. "Applicable Percentage" means, for purposes of calculating the applicable interest rate for any day for any Loan, the appropriate applicable percentage set forth on Schedule 1.1(a). The Applicable Percentages shall be determined and adjusted on the following dates (each a "Calculation Date"): (i) where the Borrower has a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt of notice by the Administrative Agent of a change in any such debt rating, based on such debt rating(s); and (ii) where the Borrower previously had a senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's, but either or both of S&P and Moody's withdraws its rating such that the Borrower's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt no longer is rated by either S&P or Moody's, five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Administrative Agent of notice of the withdrawal of the last to exist of such previous debt ratings, based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another rating for such debt of the Borrower or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement. The Applicable Percentage shall be effective from a Calculation Date until the next such Calculation Date. The Administrative Agent shall determine the appropriate Applicable Percentages promptly upon receipt of the notices and information necessary to make such determination and shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change thereof. Such determinations by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Applicable Percentage in effect on the Closing Date shall be in accordance with Level II as set forth on Schedule 1.1. "Bankruptcy Code" means the Bankruptcy Code in Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time. - 2 -
"Bankruptcy Event" means, with respect to any Person, the occurrence of any of the following with respect to such Person: (i) a court or governmental agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of such Person in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs; or (ii) there shall be commenced against such Person an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or any case, proceeding or other action for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such involuntary case or other case, proceeding or other action shall remain undismissed, undischarged or unbonded for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days; or (iii) such Person shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or consent to the appointment or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or for any substantial part of its Property or make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (iv) such Person shall be unable to, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts generally as they become due. "Base Rate" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Fleet as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Fleet based upon various factors including Fleet's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Fleet shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change. "Base Rate Loan" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate. "Borrower" means the Person identified as such in the heading hereof, together with any permitted successors and assigns. "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are authorized or required by law to close, except that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, such day shall also be a day on which dealings between banks are carried on in U.S. dollar deposits in London, England and New York, New York. "Calculation Date" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Applicable Percentage. - 3 -
"Capital Lease" means, as applied to any Person, any lease of any Property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP, is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person. "Change of Control" means either (i) a "person" or a "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of more than 50% of the then outstanding voting stock of the Borrower or (ii) a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower shall consist of individuals who are not Continuing Directors. For purposes hereof, "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, (i) an individual who on the date two years prior to such determination date was a member of the Borrower's board of directors or (ii) (a) any new director whose nomination for election by the Borrower's shareholders was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date two years prior to such determination date or whose nomination for election was previously so approved (or who are Continuing Directors pursuant to clause (b) below) or (b) any director who was elected by a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date two years prior to such determination date or whose nomination for election was previously so approved (or who are Continuing Directors pursuant to clause (a) above). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Reorganization permitted by under Section 7.3 hereof shall not be deemed a Change of Control for the purposed of this Credit Agreement. "Change of Control Notice" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.3(b). "Change of Control Prepayment Amount" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.3(b). "Change of Control Standstill Period" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.3(b). "Closing Date" means the date hereof. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations issued thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time. References to sections of the Code shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections. "Commercial Credit Business Arrangement" means any agreement between the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and an entity that purchases such Person's commercial accounts receivables with only such limited recourse back to such Person as is customary in factoring arrangements of this type. "Commitment" means with respect to each Lender, the Term Loan Commitment of such Lender. - 4 -
"Consolidated Adjusted Debt" means, at any time, the sum of, without duplication, (i) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness and (ii) the product of Consolidated Rents multiplied by 6.0. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Consolidated Net Income plus Consolidated Interest Expense plus all provisions for any Federal, state or other domestic and foreign income taxes plus depreciation and amortization, in each case on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Consolidated EBITDAR" means, for any period, the sum of Consolidated EBITDA and Consolidated Rents. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Consolidated EBITR" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Consolidated EBITDA minus depreciation and amortization plus Consolidated Rents, in each case on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Consolidated Funded Indebtedness" means, at any time, the outstanding principal amount of all Funded Indebtedness, without duplication and on a consolidated basis, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such time. "Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio" means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the ratio of (i) Consolidated EBITR to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense plus Consolidated Rents. "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, all interest expense plus the interest component under Capital Leases, in each case on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, net income on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, but excluding non-recurring charges in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 collectively with respect to all periods relevant for the calculation of the financial covenants contained in Sections 6.10 and 6.11. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Consolidated Rents" means, for any period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, all rental expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period under operating leases - 5 -
(specifically including rents paid in connection with synthetic leases, tax retention operating leases, off-balance sheet loans or similar off-balance sheet financing products), on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. Except as otherwise expressly provided, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination. "Credit Documents" means a collective reference to this Credit Agreement, the Notes, the Administrative Agent's Fee Letter and all other related agreements and documents issued or delivered hereunder or thereunder or pursuant hereto or thereto. "Default" means any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default. "Designating Lender" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(e). "Dollars" and "$" means dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America. "Environmental Laws" means any and all lawful and applicable Federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time. References to sections of ERISA shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections. "ERISA Affiliate" means an entity which is under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA, or is a member of a group which includes the Borrower and which is treated as a single employer under Sections 414(b) or (c) of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (i) with respect to any Plan, the occurrence of a Reportable Event or the substantial cessation of operations (within the meaning of Section 4062(e) of ERISA); (ii) the withdrawal by the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), or the termination of a Multiple Employer Plan; (iii) the distribution of a notice of intent to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) or 4041A of ERISA; (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan by the PBGC under Section 4042 of ERISA; (v) any event or condition which could reasonably be expected to constitute - 6 -
grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (vi) the complete or partial withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan; (vii) the conditions for imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA exist with respect to any Plan; or (vii) the adoption of an amendment to any Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA. "Eurodollar Base Rate" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurodollar Rate. "Eurodollar Loan" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate. "Eurodollar Rate" means for any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula: Eurodollar Rate = Eurodollar Base Rate ------------------------------------ 1.00 - Eurodollar Reserve Percentage Where, "Eurodollar Base Rate" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("BBA LIBOR"), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Loan being made, continued or converted by Fleet and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Fleet's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period. "Eurodollar Reserve Percentage" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as - 7 -
"Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage. "Event of Default" means such term as defined in Section 8.1. "Federal Funds Rate" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Fleet on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent. "Fees" means all fees payable pursuant to Section 3.5. "Financial Officer" means, with respect to the Borrower, the Treasurer, the Controller, the General Counsel, or the Chief Financial Officer of the Borrower; provided that the Borrower may designate additional persons or delete persons so authorized by written notice to the Administrative Agent from at least two existing Financial Officers of the Borrower "Fleet" means Fleet National Bank and its successors. "Funded Indebtedness" means, with respect to any Person (for purposes of this sentence only, the "Debtor"), without duplication and on a consolidated basis, (i) all Indebtedness of such Debtor for borrowed money, (ii) all purchase money Indebtedness of such Debtor, including without limitation the principal portion of all obligations of such Debtor under Capital Leases, (iii) all Guaranty Obligations of such Debtor with respect to Funded Indebtedness of another Person, (iv) the maximum available amount of all standby letters of credit or acceptances issued or created for the account of such Debtor, and (v) all Funded Indebtedness of another Person secured by a Lien on any Property of such Debtor, whether or not such Funded Indebtedness has been assumed; provided that Funded Indebtedness shall not include (i) any letters of credit used by such Debtor for the financing of inventory in the ordinary course of business or (ii) any amounts received by such Debtor pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement. The Funded Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Funded Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or joint venturer. "Funding Date" means the date upon which the Borrower draws the Term Loan in full, which shall be three Business Days following the Closing Date, as specified by the Borrower in its written Notice of Borrowing, in the form of Schedule 1.1(b), delivered on the Closing Date and relating to the initial funding of the Term Loan. - 8 -
"GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and subject to the terms of Section 1.3 hereof. "Governmental Authority" means any Federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory body. "Guaranty Obligations" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, any obligations of such Person (other than endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) guaranteeing or intended to guarantee any Indebtedness of any other Person in any manner, whether direct or indirect, and including without limitation any obligation, whether or not contingent, (i) to purchase any such Indebtedness or any Property constituting security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds or other support for the payment or purchase of any such Indebtedness or to maintain working capital, solvency or other balance sheet condition of such other Person (including without limitation keep well agreements, maintenance agreements, comfort letters or similar agreements or arrangements) for the benefit of any holder of Indebtedness of such other Person, (iii) to lease or purchase Property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the holder of such Indebtedness, or (iv) to otherwise assure or hold harmless the holder of such Indebtedness against loss in respect thereof. The amount of any Guaranty Obligation hereunder shall (subject to any limitations set forth therein) be deemed to be an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount (or maximum principal amount, if larger) of the Indebtedness in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made. "Indebtedness" of any Person means (i) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, or upon which interest payments are customarily made, (iii) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to Property purchased by such Person (other than customary reservations or retentions of title under agreements with suppliers entered into in the ordinary course of business), (iv) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of Property or services purchased by such Person (other than trade debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and due within six months of the incurrence thereof) which would appear as liabilities on a balance sheet of such Person, (v) all obligations of such Person under take-or-pay or similar arrangements or under commodities agreements, (vi) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on, or payable out of the proceeds of production from, Property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (vii) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person, (viii) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under Capital Leases, (ix) all obligations of such Person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements, commodity purchase or option agreements or other interest or exchange rate or commodity price hedging agreements, (x) the maximum amount of all standby letters of credit issued or bankers' acceptances facilities created for the account of such Person and, without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder (to the extent unreimbursed), (xi) all preferred stock issued by such Person and required by the terms thereof to be redeemed, or - 9 -
for which mandatory sinking fund payments are due, by a fixed date and (xii) the principal balance outstanding under any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product to which such Person is a party, where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP; provided that Indebtedness shall not include (i) any letters of credit used by such Person for the financing of inventory in the ordinary course of business or (ii) any amounts received by such Person pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer. "Interest Payment Date" means (i) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, the date of repayment of principal of such Loan and the Termination Date and (ii) as to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of each Interest Period for such Loan, the date of repayment of principal of such Loan and on the Termination Date, and in addition where the applicable Interest Period is more than 3 months, then also on the date 3 months from the beginning of the Interest Period, and each 3 months thereafter. If an Interest Payment Date falls on a date which is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deemed to be the next succeeding Business Day, except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day. "Interest Period" means as to any Eurodollar Loan, a period of one, two, three or six month's duration, as the Borrower may elect, commencing in each case, on the date of the borrowing (including conversions, extensions and renewals); provided, however, (A) if any Interest Period would end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day), (B) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Termination Date, and (C) in the case of Eurodollar Loans, where an Interest Period begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which the Interest Period is to end, such Interest Period shall end on the last day of such calendar month. "Lenders" means each of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, and each Person which may become a Lender by way of assignment in accordance with the terms hereof, together with their successors and permitted assigns. "Lending Installation" means, with respect to a Lender or the Administrative Agent, any office, branch, subsidiary or affiliate of such Lender or the Administrative Agent. "Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise), preference, priority or charge of any kind (including any agreement to give any of the foregoing, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing or similar statement or - 10 -
notice filed under the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted and in effect in the relevant jurisdiction or other similar recording or notice statute, and any lease in the nature thereof). "Loan" or "Loans" means the Term Loan (or any Base Rate Loan or Eurodollar Loan constituting a portion thereof). "Master Account" means such account as may be identified by written notice from at least two Financial Officers of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (i) the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, business, assets or liabilities of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (ii) the ability of the Borrower to perform any material obligation under the Credit Documents or (iii) any aspect of the Borrower or its business that adversely affects the material rights and remedies of the Lenders under the Credit Documents. "Materials of Environmental Concern" means any gasoline or petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum products or any hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes, defined or regulated as such in or under any Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and urea-formaldehyde insulation. "Mexican Subsidiaries" means, collectively, the following Subsidiaries of the Borrower: AutoZone de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., Zone Compra, S. de R.L. de C.V., Service Zone, S.de R.L. de C.V., Data Zone, S. de R.L. de C.V., and any other Subsidiary of the Borrower formed after the Closing Date and organized under the laws of Mexico. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such company in the business of rating securities. "Multiemployer Plan" means a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Sections 3(37) or 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "Multiple Employer Plan" means a Plan which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one employer other than the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate are contributing sponsors. "Note" or "Notes" means any Term Note. "Notice of Extension/Conversion" means the written notice of extension or conversion in substantially the form of Schedule 3.2, as required by Section 3.2. "Obligations" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower arising under any Credit Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and - 11 -
including interest and fees that accrue after any Bankruptcy Event with respect to the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding. "Participation Interest" means, the extension of credit by a Lender by way of a purchase of a participation in any Loans as provided in Section 3.13. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA and any successor thereof. "Permitted Liens" means: (i) Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders; (ii) Liens (other than Liens created or imposed under ERISA) for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due or Liens for taxes being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof); (iii) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and suppliers and other Liens imposed by law or pursuant to customary reservations or retentions of title arising in the ordinary course of business, provided that any such Liens which are material secure only amounts not yet due and payable or, if due and payable, are unfiled and no other action has been taken to enforce the same or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof); (iv) Liens (other than Liens created or imposed under ERISA) incurred or deposits made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other types of social security, or to secure the performance of tenders, statutory obligations, bids, leases, government contracts, performance and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations (exclusive of obligations for the payment of borrowed money); (v) Liens in connection with attachments or judgments (including judgment or appeal bonds) provided that the judgments secured shall, within 30 days after the entry thereof, have been discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or shall have been discharged within 30 days after the expiration of any such stay; - 12 -
(vi) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions (including zoning restrictions), minor defects or irregularities in title and other similar charges or encumbrances not, in any material respect, impairing the use of the encumbered Property for its intended purposes; (vii) leases or subleases granted to others not interfering in any material respect with the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (viii) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods; (ix) Liens on assets at the time such assets are acquired by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in accordance with Section 7.3(d); provided that such Liens are not created in contemplation of such acquisition; (x) Liens on assets of any Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary in accordance with Section 7.3(d); provided that such Liens are not created in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary; (xi) normal and customary rights of setoff upon deposits of cash in favor of banks or other depository institutions; (xii) Liens on receivables sold pursuant to a Commercial Credit Business Arrangement; (xiii) Liens on inventory held by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under consignment; (xiv) Liens on any inventory of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in favor of a vendor of such inventory, arising in the normal course of business upon its sale to the Borrower or any such Subsidiary; and (xv) other Liens on Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, so long as the Borrower and its Subsidiaries own at all times Property (a) unencumbered by any Liens other than Liens permitted by clauses (i) through (xiv) above and (b) having an aggregate fair market value of at least $2,000,000,000. "Person" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise (whether or not incorporated) or any Governmental Authority. "Plan" means any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is covered by ERISA and with respect to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would - 13 -
under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" within the meaning of Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Pricing Level" means the applicable pricing level for the Applicable Percentage shown in Schedule 1.1. "Property" means any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible. "Register" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 10.3(c). "Regulation D, T, U, or X" means Regulation D, T, U or X, respectively, of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor to all or a portion thereof. "Related Parties" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates. "Release" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into the environment (including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers and other closed receptacles containing any Materials of Environmental Concern). "Reorganization" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.3. "Reportable Event" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the notice requirement has been waived by regulation. "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders which are then in compliance with their obligations hereunder (as determined by the Administrative Agent) and holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Term Loan. "Requirement of Law" means, as to any Person, the certificate of incorporation and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its material property is subject. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such division in the business of rating securities. "SPV" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(e). - 14 -
"Single Employer Plan" means any Plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but which is not a Multiemployer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan. "Subsidiary" means, as to any Person, (a) any corporation more than 50% of whose stock of any class or classes having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time, any class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries, and (b) any partnership, association, joint venture or other entity in which such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries has more than 50% equity interest at any time. "Syndication Agent" means Wachovia Bank, National Association, together with any successors and assigns. "Term Loan" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.1(a). "Term Loan Commitment" means, with respect each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make its portion of the Term Loan in a principal amount equal to such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage (if any) of the Term Loan. "Term Loan Commitment Percentage" means for any Lender, the percentage identified as its Term Loan Commitment Percentage on Schedule 2.1(a), as such percentage may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.3. "Term Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower in favor of a Lender delivered pursuant to Section 2.1(e) and evidencing the portion of the Term Loan made by such Lender, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, restated or replaced from time to time. "Terminating Lenders" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.3(b). "Termination Date" means December 23, 2009. 1.2 COMPUTATION OF TIME PERIODS. For purposes of computation of periods of time hereunder, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding." 1.3 ACCOUNTING TERMS. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. All calculations made for the purposes of determining compliance with this Credit - 15 -
Agreement shall (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) be made by application of GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof (or, prior to the delivery of the first financial statements pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof, consistent with the financial statements as at August 28, 2004); provided, however, if (a) the Borrower shall object to determining such compliance on such basis at the time of delivery of such financial statements due to any change in GAAP or the rules promulgated with respect thereto or (b) the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall so object in writing within 30 days after delivery of such financial statements, then such calculations shall be made on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered by the Borrower to the Lenders as to which no such objection shall have been made. 1.4 TIME OF DAY. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable). SECTION 2 CREDIT FACILITIES 2.1 TERM LOAN (a) Term Loan Commitment. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make available to the Borrower on the Funding Date such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage of a term loan in Dollars in the aggregate principal amount of THREE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($300,000,000.00) (the "Term Loan"). The Term Loan may consist of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans, or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request; provided, however, that no more than five (5) Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any time (it being understood that, for purposes hereof, Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans, even if they begin on the same date, although borrowings, extensions and conversions may, in accordance with the provisions hereof, be combined at the end of existing Interest Periods to constitute a new Eurodollar Loan with a single Interest Period). Amounts prepaid on the Term Loan may not be reborrowed. (b) Minimum Amounts. Each Eurodollar Loan or Base Rate Loan that is part of the Term Loan shall be in an aggregate principal amount that is not less than $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 (or the then remaining principal balance of the Term Loan, if less). (c) Repayment of Term Loan. The entire unpaid principal amount of the Term Loan shall be due and payable in full on the Termination Date. (d) Interest. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1: - 16 -
(i) Base Rate Loans. During such periods as the Term Loan shall be comprised in whole or in part of Base Rate Loans, such Base Rate Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Percentage; and (ii) Eurodollar Loans. During such periods as the Term Loan shall be comprised in whole or in part of Eurodollar Loans, such Eurodollar Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Percentage. Interest on the Term Loan shall be payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein). (e) Term Notes. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the portion of the Term Loan made by such Lender shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to such Lender substantially in the form of Schedule 2.1(e). SECTION 3 OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO CREDIT FACILITIES 3.1 DEFAULT RATE. Upon the occurrence, and during the continuance, of an Event of Default, the principal of and, to the extent permitted by law, interest on the Loans and any other amounts owing hereunder or under the other Credit Documents shall bear interest, payable on demand, at a per annum rate 1% greater than the rate which would otherwise be applicable (or if no rate is applicable, whether in respect of interest, fees or other amounts, then 1% greater than the Base Rate). 3.2 EXTENSION AND CONVERSION. The Borrower shall have the option, on any Business Day, to deliver a Notice of Extension/Conversion to (i) extend existing Loans into a single subsequent permissible Interest Period, (ii) convert Loans into Loans of another interest rate type or (iii) extend existing Loans into automatic rolling subsequent three-month Interest Periods; provided that, with respect to this clause (iii) such Loans will be automatically extended on the last day of each three-month Interest Period into the subsequent three-month Interest Period (as requested pursuant to the relevant Notice of Extension/Conversion) until such time as the Borrower delivers a new Notice of Extension/Conversion, which new Notice of Extension/Conversion shall be delivered prior to 2:00 P.M. on the fifth Business Day prior to the last day of the then current Interest Period; provided, however, that (a) except as provided in Section 3.8, Eurodollar Loans may be converted into Base Rate Loans only on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (b) Eurodollar Loans may be extended, and Base Rate Loans may be converted into Eurodollar Loans, only if no Default or Event of Default is in existence on the date of extension or conversion, (c) Loans extended as, or - 17 -
converted into, Eurodollar Loans shall be subject to the terms of the definition of "Interest Period" set forth in Section 1.1 and shall be in such minimum amounts as provided in Section 2.1(b), (d) no more than 5 Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any time (it being understood that, for purposes hereof, Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans, even if they begin on the same date, although borrowings, extensions and conversions may, in accordance with the provisions hereof, be combined at the end of existing Interest Periods to constitute a new Eurodollar Loan with a single Interest Period) and (e) any request for extension or conversion of a Eurodollar Loan which shall fail to specify an Interest Period shall be deemed to be a request for an Interest Period of one month. Each such extension or conversion shall be effected by a Financial Officer of the Borrower giving a Notice of Extension/Conversion (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing) to the Administrative Agent prior to 11:30 A.M. on the Business Day of, in the case of the extension of Base Rate Loans and, except as set forth in clause (iii) above, prior to 2:00 P.M. on the third Business Day prior to, in the case of the extension of a Eurodollar Loan as, or conversion of a Base Rate Loan into, a Eurodollar Loan, the date of the proposed extension or conversion, specifying the date of the proposed extension or conversion, the Loans to be so extended or converted, the types of Loans into which such Loans are to be converted and, if appropriate, the applicable Interest Periods with respect thereto. In the event the Borrower fails to request extension or conversion of any Eurodollar Loan in accordance with this Section, or any such conversion or extension is not permitted or required by this Section, then such Eurodollar Loan shall be automatically converted into a Base Rate Loan at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto. The Administrative Agent shall give each Lender notice as promptly as practicable of any such proposed extension or conversion affecting any Loan. 3.3 PREPAYMENTS. (a) Voluntary Prepayments. The Borrower shall have the right to prepay Loans in whole or in part from time to time, subject to Section 3.11, but otherwise without premium or penalty; provided, however, that (i) Eurodollar Loans may only be prepaid on three Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and specifying the applicable Loans to be prepaid; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Loans will be subject to Section 3.11; and (iii) each such partial prepayment of Loans shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the full remaining amount of the Term Loan). Subject to the foregoing terms, amounts prepaid under this Section 3.3(a) shall be applied as the Borrower may elect. (b) Change of Control. (i) Subject to the procedures set forth below in clause (ii) of this Section 3.3(b), upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and the expiration of the 20-day notice period described below, each Lender shall have the right to require that the Borrower prepay (and the Borrower agrees to so prepay) in full such Lender's outstanding portion of the Loans (such amount the "Change of Control Prepayment Amount"), plus accrued and unpaid fees and interest, if any, to the date of prepayment and all other obligations due to such Lender under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents. - 18 -
(ii) Upon the occurrence of any Change of Control, the Administrative Agent shall mail a notice (the "Change of Control Notice") simultaneously to all Lenders providing each Lender with notice of its rights under this Section 3.3(b) and a period of twenty (20) calendar days to evaluate the Change of Control and make a determination as to whether such Lender will accept payment of the Change of Control Prepayment Amount (and related amounts as set forth in clause (i) above), or whether such Lender will accept such Change of Control and continue as a Lender hereunder. The period beginning on the effective date of such Change of Control and continuing through the expiration of such twenty (20) notice day period shall be referred to herein as a "Change of Control Standstill Period"). (iii) Lenders electing to have their Loans prepaid pursuant to this Section 3.3(b) shall so notify the Administrative Agent as directed in the Change of Control Notice; provided, however, that failure by any Lender to make a timely response shall be deemed to constitute an election by such Lender to terminate its Commitment and accept prepayment of its Loans. Upon the expiration date of the Change of Control Standstill Period, (A) all Lenders electing to terminate their Commitments (the "Terminating Lenders") shall surrender their Notes to the Administrative Agent at the address specified in Section 10.1 and (B) all Notes held by Terminating Lenders shall be cancelled by the Borrower and the Borrower shall pay the applicable Change of Control Prepayment Amounts to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Terminating Lenders, and all other Obligations due to the Terminating Lenders under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents. (c) General. All prepayments made pursuant to this Section 3.3 shall (i) be subject to Section 3.11 and (ii) unless the Borrower shall specify otherwise, be applied first to Base Rate Loans, if any, and then to Eurodollar Loans in direct order of Interest Period maturities. 3.4 [RESERVED]. 3.5 FEES. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, the fees referred to in the Administrative Agent's Fee Letter (collectively, the "Administrative Agent's Fees"). 3.6 CAPITAL ADEQUACY. If any Lender determines the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, any Lending Installation of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a Change (as defined below), then, within 15 days of demand by such Lender, the Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in - 19 -
the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Credit Agreement, its Loans or its obligation to make Loans hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy). "Change" means (i) any change after the Closing Date in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or (ii) any adoption of or change in any other law, governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the Closing Date which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any Lending Installation or any corporation controlling any Lender. "Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" means (i) the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the Closing Date, including transition rules, and (ii) the corresponding capital regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities outside the United States implementing the July 1988 report of the Basle Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices Entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurements and Capital Standards," including transition rules, and any amendments to such regulations adopted prior to the Closing Date. 3.7 INABILITY TO DETERMINE INTEREST RATE. If prior to the first day of any Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall have reasonably determined that, by reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market, adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall give telecopy or telephonic notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders as soon as practicable thereafter. If such notice is given (a) any Eurodollar Loans requested to be made on the first day of such Interest Period shall be made as Base Rate Loans and (b) any Loans that were to have been converted on the first day of such Interest Period to or continued as Eurodollar Loans shall be converted to or continued as Base Rate Loans. Until such notice has been withdrawn by the Administrative Agent, no further Eurodollar Loans shall be made or continued as such, nor shall the Borrower have the right to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Loans. 3.8 ILLEGALITY. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof occurring after the Closing Date shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans as contemplated by this Credit Agreement, (a) such Lender shall promptly give written notice of such circumstances to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be withdrawn whenever such circumstances no longer exist), (b) the commitment of such Lender hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans, continue Eurodollar Loans as such and convert a Base Rate Loan to Eurodollar Loans shall forthwith be canceled and, until such time as it shall no longer be unlawful for such Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans, such Lender shall then have a commitment only to make a Base Rate Loan when a Eurodollar Loan is requested and (c) such Lender's Loans then outstanding as Eurodollar Loans, if any, shall be converted automatically to Base Rate Loans on the respective last days of the then current Interest Periods with respect to such Loans or within such earlier period as required by law. If any such conversion of a Eurodollar Loan occurs on a day which is not the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto, the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such amounts, if any, as may be required pursuant to Section 3.11. - 20 -
3.9 YIELD PROTECTION. If any law or any governmental or quasi-governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any interpretation thereof, or the compliance of any Lender therewith, (a) subjects any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to any tax, duty, charge or withholding on or from payments due from the Borrower (excluding federal taxation of the overall net income of any Lender or applicable Lending Installation), or changes the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender in respect of its Loans or other amounts due it hereunder; (b) imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirements against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation (other than reserves and assessments taken into account in determining the Base Rate); and the result of which is to increase the cost to any Lender of making, funding or maintaining loans or reduces any amount receivable by any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with loans, or requires any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to the amount of loans held or interest received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Lender; then, within 15 days of demand by such Lender, the Borrower shall pay such Lender that portion of such increased expense incurred or reduction in an amount received which such Lender determines is attributable to making, funding and maintaining its Loans and its Commitments. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. 3.10 WITHHOLDING TAX EXEMPTION. Each Lender that is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof shall: (a) (i) on or before the date of any payment by the Borrower under this Credit Agreement or Notes to such Lender, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (A) two (2) duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form 1001 or 4224, or successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying that it is entitled to receive payments under this Credit Agreement and any Notes without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes and (B) an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 or W-9, or successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying that it is entitled to an exemption from United States backup withholding tax; (ii) deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two (2) further copies of any such form or - 21 -
certification on or before the date that any such form or certification expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form previously delivered by it to the Borrower; and (iii) obtain such extensions of time for filing and complete such forms or certifications as may reasonably be requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent; or (b) in the case of any such Lender that is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (i) represent to the Borrower (for the benefit of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) that it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) agree to furnish to the Borrower on or before the date of any payment by the Borrower, with a copy to the Administrative Agent two (2) accurate and complete original signed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8, or successor applicable form certifying to such Lender's legal entitlement at the date of such certificate to an exemption from U.S. withholding tax under the provisions of Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to payments to be made under this Credit Agreement and any Notes (and to deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two (2) further copies of such form on or before the date it expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recently provided form and, if necessary, obtain any extensions of time reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent for filing and completing such forms), and (iii) agree, to the extent legally entitled to do so, upon reasonable request by the Borrower, to provide to the Borrower (for the benefit of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) such other forms as may be reasonably required in order to establish the legal entitlement of such Lender to an exemption from withholding with respect to payments under this Credit Agreement and any Notes; unless in any such case any change in treaty, law or regulation has occurred after the date such Person becomes a Lender hereunder which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form with respect to it and such Lender so advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in either case. Each Person that shall become a Lender or a participant of a Lender pursuant to subsection 10.3 shall, upon the effectiveness of the related transfer, be required to provide all of the forms, certifications and statements required pursuant to this subsection, provided that in the case of a participant of a Lender the obligations of such participant of a Lender pursuant to this Section 3.10 shall be determined as if the participant of a Lender were a Lender except that such participant of a Lender shall furnish all such required forms, certifications and statements to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased. 3.11 INDEMNITY. The Borrower promises to indemnify each Lender and to hold each Lender harmless from any loss or expense which such Lender may sustain or incur (other than through such Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct) as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans after the Borrower has given a - 22 -
notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement, (b) default by the Borrower in making any prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan after the Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement or (c) the making of a prepayment of Eurodollar Loans on a day which is not the last day of an Interest Period with respect thereto. With respect to Eurodollar Loans, such indemnification may include an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of the applicable Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Eurodollar Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Percentage included therein, if any) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) which would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank Eurodollar market. The covenants of the Borrower set forth in this Section 3.11 shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. 3.12 PRO RATA TREATMENT. Except to the extent otherwise provided herein: (a) Loans. Each Loan, each payment or prepayment of principal of any Loan, each payment of interest on the Loans, and each conversion or extension of any Loan, shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders in accordance with the respective principal amounts of their outstanding Loans and Participation Interests. (b) (i) Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the Closing Date that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with Section 2.1 and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the Term Loan available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the Federal Funds Rate. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the Term Loan to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Term Loan Commitment - 23 -
Percentage. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent. (ii) Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. (c) Obligations of Lenders Several. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to fund its Term Loan Commitment Percentage and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.5 are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to fund its Term Loan Commitment Percentage or to make any payment under Section 10.5 on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so fund its Term Loan Commitment Percentage or to make its payment under Section 10.5. A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this Section 3.12 shall be conclusive, absent manifest error. 3.13 SHARING OF PAYMENTS. The Lenders agree among themselves that, in the event that any Lender shall obtain payment in respect of any Loan or any other obligation owing to such Lender under this Credit Agreement through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of Title 11 of the United States Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, in excess of its pro rata share of such payment as provided for in this Credit Agreement, such Lender shall promptly purchase from the other Lenders a participation in such Loans and other obligations in such amounts, and make such other adjustments from time to time, as shall be equitable to the end that all Lenders share such payment in accordance with their respective ratable shares as provided for in this Credit Agreement. The Lenders further agree among themselves that if payment to a Lender obtained by such Lender through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien, counterclaim or other event as aforesaid shall be rescinded or must otherwise be restored, each Lender which shall - 24 -
have shared the benefit of such payment shall, by repurchase of a participation theretofore sold, return its share of that benefit (together with its share of any accrued interest payable with respect thereto) to each Lender whose payment shall have been rescinded or otherwise restored. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing such a participation may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all rights of payment, including setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a holder of such Loan or other obligation in the amount of such participation. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Credit Agreement, if any Lender or the Administrative Agent shall fail to remit to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender an amount payable by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender pursuant to this Credit Agreement on the date when such amount is due, such payments shall be made together with interest thereon for each date from the date such amount is due until the date such amount is paid to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, any Lender receives a secured claim in lieu of a setoff to which this Section 3.13 applies, such Lender shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the Lenders under this Section 3.13 to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim. 3.14 PAYMENTS, COMPUTATIONS, ETC. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent in dollars in immediately available funds, without offset, deduction, counterclaim or withholding of any kind, at the Administrative Agent's office specified in Schedule 2.1(a) not later than 4:00 P.M. on the date when due. Payments received after such time shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day. The Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) debit the amount of any such payment which is not made by such time to any ordinary deposit account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent (with notice to the Borrower). The Borrower shall, at the time it makes any payment under this Credit Agreement, specify to the Administrative Agent the Loans, Fees, interest or other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to which such payment is to be applied (and in the event that it fails so to specify, or if such application would be inconsistent with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Lenders in such manner as the Administrative Agent may determine to be appropriate in respect of obligations owing by the Borrower hereunder, subject to the terms of Section 3.12(a)). The Administrative Agent will distribute such payments to such Lenders, if any such payment is received prior to 12:00 Noon on a Business Day in like funds as received prior to the end of such Business Day and otherwise the Administrative Agent will distribute such payment to such Lenders on the next succeeding Business Day. Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (subject to accrual of interest and Fees for the period of such extension), except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans, if the extension would cause the payment to be made in the next following calendar month, then such payment shall instead be made on the next preceding Business Day. Except as expressly provided otherwise herein, all computations of interest and fees shall be made on the basis of actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days, except with respect to computation of interest on Base - 25 -
Rate Loans which (unless the Base Rate is determined by reference to the Federal Funds Rate) shall be calculated based on a year of 365 or 366 days, as appropriate. Interest shall accrue from and include the date of borrowing, but exclude the date of payment. (b) Allocation of Payments After Event of Default. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement to the contrary, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all amounts collected or received by the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of the Loans, Fees or any other amounts outstanding under any of the Credit Documents shall be paid over or delivered as follows: FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees) of the Administrative Agent in connection with enforcing the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents; SECOND, to payment of any fees owed to the Administrative Agent; THIRD, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) of each of the Lenders in connection with enforcing its rights under the Credit Documents or otherwise with respect to amounts owing to such Lender; FOURTH, to the payment of accrued fees and interest; FIFTH, to the payment of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans; SIXTH, to all other amounts and other obligations which shall have become due and payable under the Credit Documents or otherwise and not repaid pursuant to clauses "FIRST" through "FIFTH" above; and SEVENTH, to the payment of the surplus, if any, to whomever may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus. In carrying out the foregoing, (i) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category and (ii) each of the Lenders shall receive an amount equal to its pro rata share (based on the proportion that the then outstanding Loans held by such Lender bears to the aggregate then outstanding Loans) of amounts available to be applied pursuant to clauses "THIRD", "FOURTH", "FIFTH" and "SIXTH" above. 3.15 EVIDENCE OF DEBT. (a) Each Lender shall maintain an account or accounts evidencing each Loan made by such Lender to the Borrower from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Credit Agreement. - 26 -
Each Lender will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of its account or accounts and to promptly update its account or accounts from time to time, as necessary. (b) The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register pursuant to Section 10.3(c) hereof, and a subaccount for each Lender, in which Register and subaccounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the amount, type and Interest Period of each such Loan hereunder, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from or for the account of the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof. The Administrative Agent will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of the subaccounts referred to in the preceding sentence and to promptly update such subaccounts from time to time, as necessary. (c) The entries made in the accounts, Register and subaccounts maintained pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 3.15 (and, if consistent with the entries of the Administrative Agent, subsection (a)) shall be prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations of the Borrower therein recorded; provided, however, that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain any such account, such Register or such subaccount, as applicable, or any error therein, shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans made by such Lender in accordance with the terms hereof. 3.16 REPLACEMENT OF LENDERS. In the event any Lender delivers to the Borrower any notice in accordance with Sections 3.6, 3.8, 3.9 or 3.10, then the Borrower shall have the right, if no Default or Event of Default then exists, to replace such Lender (the "Replaced Lender") with one or more additional banks or financial institutions (collectively, the "Replacement Lender"), provided that (A) at the time of any replacement pursuant to this Section 3.16, the Replacement Lender shall enter into one or more assignment agreements substantially in the form of Schedule 10.3(b) pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, Section 10.3(b) (and with all fees payable pursuant to said Section 10.3(b) to be paid by the Replacement Lender) pursuant to which the Replacement Lender shall acquire all of the rights and obligations of the Replaced Lender hereunder and, in connection therewith, shall pay to the Replaced Lender in respect thereof an amount equal to the sum of (a) the principal of, and all accrued interest on, all outstanding Loans of the Replaced Lender, and (b) all accrued, but theretofore unpaid, fees owing to the Replaced Lender pursuant to Section 3.5(a), and (B) all obligations of the Borrower owing to the Replaced Lender (including all obligations, if any, owing pursuant to Section 3.6, 3.8 or 3.9, but excluding those obligations specifically described in clause (A) above in respect of which the assignment purchase price has been, or is concurrently being paid) shall be paid in full to such Replaced Lender concurrently with such replacement. - 27 -
SECTION 4 CONDITIONS 4.1 CLOSING CONDITIONS. The obligation of the Lenders to enter into this Credit Agreement and to make the initial Loans shall be subject to satisfaction of the following conditions (in form and substance acceptable to the Lenders): (a) The Administrative Agent shall have received original counterparts of this Credit Agreement executed by each of the parties hereto; (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received an appropriate original Term Note for each Lender requesting a Term Note, executed by the Borrower; (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence and good standing of the Borrower, the corporate or other necessary authority for and the validity of the Credit Documents, and any other matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a legal opinion of Harry L. Goldsmith, Esq., general counsel for the Borrower, dated as of the Closing Date and substantially in the form of Schedule 4.1(d); (e) Since August 28, 2004 there shall not have occurred nor otherwise exist an event or condition which has a Material Adverse Effect; (f) The Administrative Agent shall have received, for its own account and for the accounts of the Lenders, all fees and expenses required by this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document to be paid on or before the Closing Date; and (g) The Administrative Agent shall have received such other documents, agreements or information which may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent. 4.2 CONDITIONS TO ALL EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT. The obligations of each Lender to make the Loans to be made on the Funding Date hereunder are subject to satisfaction of the following conditions in addition to satisfaction on the Closing Date of the conditions set forth in Section 4.1: (a) The Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent, an appropriate Notice of Borrowing; - 28 -
(b) The representations and warranties set forth in Section 5 shall be, subject to the limitations set forth therein, true and correct in all material respects as of such date (except for those which expressly relate to an earlier date); (c) There shall not have been commenced against the Borrower an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or any case, proceeding or other action for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Borrower or for any substantial part of its Property or for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and such involuntary case or other case, proceeding or other action shall remain undismissed, undischarged or unbonded; and (d) No Default or Event of Default shall exist and be continuing either prior to or after giving effect thereto. SECTION 5 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES The Borrower hereby represents to the Administrative Agent and each Lender that: 5.1 FINANCIAL CONDITION. The audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of August 28, 2004 and the audited consolidated statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for the year ended August 28, 2004 have heretofore been furnished to each Lender. Such financial statements (including the notes thereto) (a) have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, (b) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby and (c) present fairly (on the basis disclosed in the footnotes to such financial statements) the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and for such periods. During the period from August 28, 2004 to and including the Closing Date, there has been no sale, transfer or other disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any material part of the business or property of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and no purchase or other acquisition by any of them of any business or property (including any capital stock of any other person) material in relation to the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case, which is not reflected in the foregoing financial statements or in the notes thereto and has not otherwise been disclosed in writing to the Lenders on or prior to the Closing Date. Since August 28, 2004, through and including the Closing Date, there has not occurred an event or condition which has had a Material Adverse Effect. 5.2 ORGANIZATION; EXISTENCE; COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized, validly existing and is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has the - 29 -
corporate or other necessary power and authority, and the legal right, to own and operate its property, to lease the property it operates as lessee and to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged, except to the extent that the failure to have such legal right would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (c) is duly qualified as a foreign entity and in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, other than in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and in good standing would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) is in compliance with all material Requirements of Law, except to the extent that the failure to comply therewith would not, in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 5.3 POWER; AUTHORIZATION; ENFORCEABLE OBLIGATIONS. The Borrower has the corporate or other necessary power and authority, and the legal right, to make, deliver and perform the Credit Documents to which it is a party, and in the case of the Borrower, to borrow hereunder, and has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the borrowings on the terms and conditions of this Credit Agreement and to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents to which it is a party. No consent or authorization of, filing with, notice to or other similar act by or in respect of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is required to be obtained or made by or on behalf of the Borrower in connection with the borrowings hereunder or with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of the Credit Documents to which the Borrower is a party. This Credit Agreement has been, and each other Credit Document to which the Borrower is a party will be, duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower. This Credit Agreement constitutes, and each other Credit Document to which the Borrower is a party when executed and delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law). 5.4 NO LEGAL BAR. The execution, delivery and performance of the Credit Documents by the Borrower, the borrowings hereunder and the use of the proceeds thereof (a) will not violate any Requirement of Law or contractual obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in any respect that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (b) will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the properties or revenues of any of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to any such Requirement of Law or contractual obligation, and (c) will not violate or conflict with any provision of the Borrower's articles of incorporation or by-laws. 5.5 NO MATERIAL LITIGATION. Except as disclosed in Schedule 5.5, there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its properties before any Governmental Authority that (a) could reasonably be - 30 -
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (b) in any manner draw into question the validity, legality or enforceability of any Credit Document or any transaction contemplated thereby. 5.6 NO DEFAULT. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default under or with respect to any of their contractual obligations in any respect which would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. 5.7 OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY; LIENS. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all its material real property, and good title to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all its other material property, and none of such property is subject to any Lien, except for Permitted Liens. 5.8 NO BURDENSOME RESTRICTIONS. Except as previously disclosed in writing to the Lenders on or prior to the Closing Date, no Requirement of Law or contractual obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 5.9 TAXES. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has filed or caused to be filed all United States federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns which, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, are required to be filed and has paid (a) all taxes shown to be due and payable on said returns or (b) all taxes shown to be due and payable on any assessments of which it has received notice made against it or any of its property and all other taxes, fees or other charges imposed on it or any of its property by any Governmental Authority (other than any (i) taxes, fees or other charges with respect to which the failure to pay, in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) taxes, fees or other charges the amount or validity of which are currently being contested and with respect to which reserves in conformity with GAAP have been provided on the books of such Person), and no tax Lien has been filed, and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fee or other charge. 5.10 ERISA. Except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect: (a) During the five-year period prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made: (i) no ERISA Event has occurred, and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, no event or condition has occurred or exists as a result of which any ERISA Event could reasonably be expected to occur, with respect to any Plan; (ii) no "accumulated funding deficiency," as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, has occurred with respect to any Plan; (iii) each Single - 31 -
Employer Plan and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, each Multiemployer Plan has been maintained, operated, and funded in compliance with its own terms and in material compliance with the provisions of ERISA, the Code, and any other applicable federal or state laws; and (iv) no lien in favor of the PBGC or a Plan has arisen or is reasonably likely to arise on account of any Plan. (b) The actuarial present value of all "benefit liabilities" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA), whether or not vested, under each Single Employer Plan, as of the last annual valuation date prior to the date on which this representation is made or deemed made (determined, in each case, utilizing the actuarial assumptions used in such Plan's most recent actuarial valuation report), did not exceed as of such valuation date the fair market value of the assets of such Plan. (c) Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, could be reasonably expected to incur, any withdrawal liability under ERISA to any Multiemployer Plan or Multiple Employer Plan. Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate would become subject to any withdrawal liability under ERISA if the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate were to withdraw completely from all Multiemployer Plans and Multiple Employer Plans as of the valuation date most closely preceding the date on which this representation is made or deemed made. Neither the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has received any notification that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization (within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA), is insolvent (within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA), or has been terminated (within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA), and no Multiemployer Plan is, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, reasonably expected to be in reorganization, insolvent, or terminated. (d) No prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or breach of fiduciary responsibility has occurred with respect to a Plan which has subjected or may subject the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to any liability under Sections 406, 409, 502(i), or 502(l) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, or under any agreement or other instrument pursuant to which the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate has agreed or is required to indemnify any person against any such liability. (e) Neither the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliates has any material liability with respect to "expected post-retirement benefit obligations" within the meaning of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 106. (f) Neither the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement nor the consummation of the financing transactions contemplated thereunder will involve any transaction which is subject to the prohibitions of Sections 404, 406 or 407 of ERISA or in connection with which a tax could be imposed pursuant to Section 4975 of the Code. The representation by the Borrower in the preceding sentence is made in reliance upon and - 32 -
subject to the accuracy of the Lenders' representation in Section 10.15 with respect to their source of funds and is subject, in the event that the source of the funds used by the Lenders in connection with this transaction is an insurance company's general asset account, to the application of Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 95-60, 60 Fed. Reg. 35,925 (1995), compliance with the regulations issued under Section 401(c)(1)(A) of ERISA, or the issuance of any other prohibited transaction exemption or similar relief, to the effect that assets in an insurance company's general asset account do not constitute assets of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA of a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code. 5.11 GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, ETC. (a) No part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any "margin stock" in violation of Regulation U. If requested by any Lender or the Administrative Agent, the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender a statement to the foregoing effect in conformity with the requirements of FR Form U-1 referred to in said Regulation U. No indebtedness being reduced or retired out of the proceeds of the Loans was or will be incurred for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U or any "margin security" within the meaning of Regulation T. "Margin stock" within the meanings of Regulation U does not constitute more than 25% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. None of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, the direct or indirect use of the proceeds of the Loans) will violate or result in a violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or regulations issued pursuant thereto, or Regulation T, U or X. (b) Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act or the Investment Company Act of 1940, each as amended. In addition, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is (i) an "investment company" registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and is not controlled by such a company, or (ii) a "holding company", or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company", or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or of a "subsidiary" of a "holding company", within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended. (c) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has obtained all licenses, permits, franchises or other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of its respective Property and to the conduct of its business, except where such failure could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. (d) Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance of the United States of America, or of any state, city, town, municipality, county or any other jurisdiction, or of any agency thereof (including without limitation, environmental laws and regulations), except where such violation could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. - 33 -
(e) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is current with all material reports and documents, if any, required to be filed with any state or federal securities commission or similar agency and is in full compliance in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of such commissions, except where such failure could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 5.12 SUBSIDIARIES. Schedule 5.12 sets forth all the Subsidiaries of the Borrower at the Closing Date, the jurisdiction of their organization and the direct or indirect ownership interest of the Borrower therein. 5.13 PURPOSE OF LOANS. The proceeds of the Loans hereunder shall be used solely by the Borrower to (a) to refinance existing Indebtedness of the Borrower under existing credit agreements, (b) repurchase stock in the Borrower, (c) to finance acquisitions to the extent permitted under this Credit Agreement and (d) for the working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. 5.14 DISCLOSURE. No certificate (including any financial statements or other documents or attached thereto) furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Credit Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. SECTION 6 AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS The Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect or any amounts payable hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall remain outstanding, and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have terminated: 6.1 INFORMATION COVENANTS. The Borrower will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders: - 34 -
(a) Annual Financial Statements. As soon as available, and in any event within the earlier of (i) the 100th day after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower and (ii) the day that is ten (10) Business Days after the date the Borrower's annual report on Form 10-K is required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, a consolidated balance sheet and income statement of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as of the end of such fiscal year, together with related consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and of cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in comparative form consolidated figures for the preceding fiscal year, all such financial information described above to be in reasonable form and detail and audited by Ernst & Young LLP (or independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent) and whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for changes with which such accountants concur) and shall not be limited as to the scope of the audit or qualified as to the status of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as a going concern. (b) Quarterly Financial Statements. As soon as available, and in any event within the earlier of (i) the 50th day after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower and (ii) the day that is five (5) Business Days after the date the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q is required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, a consolidated balance sheet and income statement of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as of the end of such fiscal quarter, together with related consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and of cash flows for such fiscal quarter in each case setting forth in comparative form consolidated figures for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, all such financial information described above to be in reasonable form and detail and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, and accompanied by a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower to the effect that such quarterly financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments. (c) Officer's Certificate. At the time of delivery of the financial statements provided for in Sections 6.1(a) and 6.1(b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower substantially in the form of Schedule 6.1(c), (i) demonstrating compliance with the financial covenants contained in Sections 6.10 and 6.11 by calculation thereof as of the end of each such fiscal period, (ii) stating that no Default or Event of Default exists, or if any Default or Event of Default does exist, specifying the nature and extent thereof and what action the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto and (iii) certifying as to the Borrower's current senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P and/or Moody's. (d) Reports. Promptly upon transmission or receipt thereof, (a) copies of any filings on Forms 8-K, 10-Q or 10-K and any other material filings or registrations with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any successor agency, and copies of all financial statements, proxy statements, material notices and material reports as the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall send to its shareholders or to a holder of any Indebtedness owed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in its capacity as such a holder and (b) upon the request - 35 -
of the Administrative Agent, all reports and written information to and from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or any state or local agency responsible for environmental matters, the United States Occupational Health and Safety Administration, or any state or local agency responsible for health and safety matters, or any successor agencies or authorities concerning environmental, health or safety matters. (e) Notices. Upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Borrower will give written notice to the Administrative Agent immediately of (a) the occurrence of an event or condition consisting of a Default or Event of Default, specifying the nature and existence thereof and what action the Borrower propose to take with respect thereto, and (b) the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) the pendency or commencement of any litigation, arbitral or governmental proceeding against such Person which if adversely determined is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the institution of any proceedings against such Person with respect to, or the receipt of notice by such Person of potential liability or responsibility for violation, or alleged violation of any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, including but not limited to, Environmental Laws, the violation of which would likely have a Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) any notice or determination concerning the imposition of any withdrawal liability by a Multiemployer Plan against such Person or any ERISA Affiliate, the determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, in reorganization within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA or the termination of any Plan. (f) ERISA. Upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Borrower will give written notice to the Administrative Agent promptly (and in any event within five business days) of: (i) of any event or condition, including, but not limited to, any Reportable Event, that constitutes, or might reasonably lead to, an ERISA Event; (ii) with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, the receipt of notice as prescribed in ERISA or otherwise of any withdrawal liability assessed against the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates, or of a determination that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or insolvent (both within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA); (iii) the failure to make full payment on or before the due date (including extensions) thereof of all amounts which the Borrower, any of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute to each Plan pursuant to its terms and as required to meet the minimum funding standard set forth in ERISA and the Code with respect thereto; or (iv) any change in the funding status of any Plan that reasonably could be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, together with a description of any such event or condition or a copy of any such notice and a statement by a Financial Officer of the Borrower briefly setting forth the details regarding such event, condition, or notice, and the action, if any, which has been or is being taken or is proposed to be taken by the Borrower with respect thereto. Promptly upon request, the Borrower shall furnish the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with such additional information concerning any Plan as may be reasonably requested, including, but not limited to, copies of each annual report/return (Form 5500 series), as well as all schedules and attachments thereto required to be filed with the Department of Labor and/or the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to ERISA and the Code, respectively, for each "plan year" (within the meaning of Section 3(39) of ERISA). - 36 -
(g) Change of Control; Reorganization. Upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Borrower will promptly provide the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with (i) written notice of any actual or expected Change of Control or Reorganization, (ii) the circumstances and relevant facts regarding such Change of Control or Reorganization (including the information with respect to pro forma historical income, cash flow and capitalization, each after giving effect to such Change of Control or Reorganization, as the case may be), and (iii) such additional information and documents regarding such Change of Control or Reorganization as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and/or any Lender. (h) Debt Rating. No later than five (5) days after a Financial Officer obtains knowledge of any such issuance of change, give notice to the Administrative Agent (by telephone, followed promptly by written notice transmitted by facsimile with a hard copy sent promptly thereafter) of any issuance of change (either expressly or pursuant to a letter from S&P or Moody's stating an "implied" rating), in rating by S&P or Moody's in respect of the Borrower's non-credit enhanced senior long-term debt (secured or unsecured), together with details thereof. (i) Other Information. With reasonable promptness upon any such request, such other information regarding the business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may reasonably request. Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.1(a), (b) or (d) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed in Section 10.1; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of all officer's certificates delivered pursuant to Section 6.1(c) to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.1(a), (b) or (d). Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the officer's certificate required by Section 6.1(c) to the Administrative Agent. Except for such officer's certificates required by Section 6.1(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents. - 37 -
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "Borrower Materials") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "Platform") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a "Public Lender"). The Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any materials "PUBLIC" (as set forth below), except that so long as any Lender is a Public Lender, the Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." 6.2 PRESERVATION OF EXISTENCE AND FRANCHISES. Except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights, franchises and authority. 6.3 BOOKS AND RECORDS. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep complete and accurate books and records of its transactions in accordance with good accounting practices on the basis of GAAP (including the establishment and maintenance of appropriate reserves). 6.4 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders, and all applicable restrictions imposed by all Governmental Authorities, applicable to it and its property if noncompliance with any such law, rule, regulation, order or restriction would have a Material Adverse Effect. 6.5 PAYMENT OF TAXES AND OTHER INDEBTEDNESS. Except as otherwise provided pursuant to the terms of the definition of "Permitted Liens" set forth in Section 1.1, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay and discharge (a) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it, or upon its income or profits, or upon any of its properties, before they shall become delinquent, (b) all lawful claims (including claims for labor, materials and supplies) which, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon - 38 -
any of its properties, and (c) except as prohibited hereunder, all of its other Indebtedness as it shall become due. 6.6 INSURANCE. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain in full force and effect insurance, which may include self insurance, in such amounts and covering such risks as is consistent with sound business practices and similarly situated corporations. 6.7 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain and preserve its properties and equipment material to the conduct of its business in good repair, working order and condition, normal wear and tear and casualty and condemnation excepted, and will make, or cause to be made, in such properties and equipment from time to time all repairs, renewals, replacements, extensions, additions, betterments and improvements thereto as may be needed or proper, to the extent and in the manner customary for companies in similar businesses. 6.8 USE OF PROCEEDS. The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans solely for the purposes set forth in Section 5.13. 6.9 AUDITS/INSPECTIONS. Upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent, including, without limitation, independent accountants, agents, attorneys, and appraisers to visit and inspect its property, including its books and records, its accounts receivable and inventory, its facilities and its other business assets, and to make photocopies or photographs thereof and to write down and record any information such representative obtains and shall permit the Administrative Agent or its representatives to investigate and verify the accuracy of information provided to the Lenders and to discuss all such matters with the officers, employees and representatives of such Person. 6.10 ADJUSTED DEBT TO EBITDAR RATIO. The Borrower shall cause the ratio of Consolidated Adjusted Debt to Consolidated EBITDAR as of the last day of each fiscal quarter to be no greater than 3.00 to 1.00. 6.11 INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO. The Borrower shall cause the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter to be no less than 2.50 to 1.0. - 39 -
SECTION 7 NEGATIVE COVENANTS The Borrower hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect or any amounts payable hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall remain outstanding, and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have terminated: 7.1 LIENS. The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien with respect to any of their Property, whether now owned or after acquired, except for Permitted Liens. 7.2 NATURE OF BUSINESS. The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, substantively alter the character or conduct of the business conducted by any such Person as of the Closing Date. 7.3 CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, SALE OR PURCHASE OF ASSETS, ETC. The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to: (a) except in connection with a disposition of assets permitted by the terms of subsection (c) below, dissolve, liquidate or wind up their affairs; (b) enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation; provided, however, that, so long as no Default or Event of Default would be directly or indirectly caused as a result thereof, (i) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any of its Subsidiaries provided that the Borrower is the surviving corporation; (ii) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with any other Subsidiary of the Borrower; (iii) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries may merge or consolidate with any Person (other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) provided that (A) the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower is the surviving corporation and (B) after giving effect on a pro forma basis to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default would exist hereunder; and (iv) the Borrower may consummate the Reorganization pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the last paragraph of this Section 7.3. (c) sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of Property owned by and material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (other than (i) any such sale, lease, transfer or other disposition by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower), provided, however, for the purposes of this subsection (c), sale-leaseback transactions entered into by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole to the extent the aggregate amount with respect to all such transactions entered into after the Closing Date - 40 -
does not exceed $500,000,000; and, provided further, the Borrower may consummate the Reorganization pursuant to and in accordance with the last paragraph of this Section 7.3; or (d) except as otherwise permitted by Section 7.3(a) or Section 7.3(b), acquire all or any portion of the capital stock or securities of any other Person or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire (in a single transaction or a series of related transactions) all or any substantial part of the Property of any other Person; provided that (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be permitted to make acquisitions of the type referred to in this Section 7.3(d), so long as such acquisitions are non-hostile and (ii) after giving effect on a pro forma basis to any such acquisition (including but not limited to any Indebtedness to be incurred or assumed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection therewith), no Default or Event of Default would exist hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower will be permitted to effect an internal reorganization that will result in the AutoZone parent company changing its state of incorporation from Nevada to Delaware and that will be accomplished either by (i) the Borrower merging with and into a new wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, which Subsidiary (x) will be incorporated in the state of Delaware and the surviving corporation of such merger, (y) shall, as a result of such merger, assume by operation of law all of the rights and obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement, and (z) shall, immediately after the consummation of such merger, have management and controlling ownership substantially similar to that of the Borrower immediately prior to the consummation of such merger or (ii) the Borrower becoming a wholly-owned Subsidiary of a new holding company incorporated in the State of Delaware, the outstanding capital stock of which holding company will be owned by the current shareholders of the Borrower (either such transaction, the "Reorganization"). The Lenders hereby agree that the Borrower shall be permitted to consummate the Reorganization so long as (i) the consummation of the Reorganization shall not result in a material and adverse impact to the interests of the Administrative Agent and/or the Lenders under the Credit Agreement and the Notes, and (ii) after giving effect to the Reorganization, (A) the Borrower become a wholly-owned subsidiary of a corporation organized in the State of Delaware and (B) that the management and controlling ownership of such parent corporation immediately after the consummation of the Reorganization be substantially similar to that of the Borrower immediately prior to the consummation of the Reorganization. The Borrower hereby agrees (i) to provide the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with such additional information and documents related to the Reorganization as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and/or any Lender and (ii) to execute within a reasonable time after consummation of the Reorganization (not to exceed sixty (60) days unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent) such appropriate amendments, corporate authority documents and other supporting documents to or under the Credit Agreement evidencing any changes made necessary by the consummation of the Reorganization (including, without limitation, (x) in the event the Borrower merges with and into a new wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, a legal opinion of Borrower's counsel, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent's legal counsel, addressing the enforceability of the Credit Documents with respect to such surviving Subsidiary and (y) in the event that the Borrower becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of a new parent holding company incorporated in Delaware, a guaranty by such new parent holding company of the Borrower's obligations under - 41 -
the Credit Agreement) and such other changes as may be mutually agreed to by the Borrower (or its successor, if applicable) and the parties hereto, each in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Borrower (or its successor, if applicable), the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders. The Borrower acknowledges that the agreement of the Lenders evidenced in this paragraph is given in reliance upon the foregoing conditions and agreements and shall be deemed revoked if any such condition or agreement is breached. 7.4 FISCAL YEAR. The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, change its fiscal year without first obtaining the written consent of the Required Lenders (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld). 7.5 SUBSIDIARY INDEBTEDNESS. The Borrower will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) Indebtedness set forth on Schedule 7.5 (and any renewals, refinancings or extensions thereof on terms and conditions no more favorable, in the aggregate, to such creditor than such existing Indebtedness and in a principal amount not in excess of that outstanding as of the date of such renewal, refinancing or extension); (b) intercompany Indebtedness owed by a Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or to another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower; (c) Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries incurred after the Closing Date to provide all or a portion of the purchase price of short-lived assets (such as trucks and computer equipment) which may be treated as Capital Leases in accordance with GAAP in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in any fiscal year; (d) Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries incurred in connection with synthetic leases, tax retention operating leases, off-balance sheet loans or similar off-balance sheet financings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000,000 in any two consecutive fiscal years; (e) Indebtedness of the Mexican Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount for all Mexican Subsidiaries not to exceed $150,000,000 at any time outstanding; and (f) other Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $25,000,000 at any time outstanding. - 42 -
SECTION 8 EVENTS OF DEFAULT 8.1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT. An Event of Default shall exist upon the occurrence of any of the following specified events (each an "Event of Default"): (a) Payment. The Borrower shall (i) default in the payment when due of any principal of any of the Loans, or (ii) default, and such default shall continue for five (5) or more Business Days, in the payment when due of any interest on the Loans, or of any Fees or other amounts owing hereunder, under any of the other Credit Documents or in connection herewith or therewith; or (b) Representations. Any representation, warranty or statement made or deemed to be made by the Borrower herein, in any of the other Credit Documents, or in any statement or certificate delivered or required to be delivered pursuant hereto or thereto shall prove untrue in any material respect on the date as of which it was deemed to have been made; or (c) Covenants. The Borrower shall (i) default in the due performance or observance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in Sections 6.2, 6.8, 6.10, 6.11 or 7.1 through 7.3, inclusive, and 7.5, or (ii) default in the due performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 6.1 and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of at least 5 days after the earlier of a responsible officer of the Borrower becoming aware of such default or notice thereof by the Administrative Agent. (iii) default in the due performance or observance by it of any term, covenant or agreement (other than those referred to in subsections (a), (b), (c)(i) or (c)(ii) of this Section 8.1) contained in this Credit Agreement and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of at least 30 days after the earlier of a responsible officer of the Borrower becoming aware of such default or notice thereof by the Administrative Agent; or - 43 -
(d) Bankruptcy, etc. Any Bankruptcy Event shall occur with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; or (e) Other Indebtedness. With respect to any Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness outstanding under this Credit Agreement or owing to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries) in excess of $35,000,000 in the aggregate for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall (A) default in any payment (beyond the applicable grace period with respect thereto, if any) with respect to any such Indebtedness, or (B) default in the observance or performance relating to such Indebtedness or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event or condition shall occur or condition exist, the effect of which default or other event or condition is to cause, or permit, the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or trustee or agent on behalf of such holders) to cause, any such Indebtedness to become due prior to the applicable maturity date, but after the expiration of all applicable grace periods, and such Indebtedness shall not be repaid when due; or (ii) any such Indebtedness shall be declared due and payable, or required to be prepaid other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment, prior to the stated maturity thereof and shall not be repaid when due; or (f) Judgments. One or more judgments or decrees shall be entered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries involving a liability of $25,000,000 or more in the aggregate (to the extent not paid or covered by insurance) and any such judgments or decrees shall not have been vacated, discharged or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof, or if longer, within the applicable appeal period (but in no event for more than 90 days from the entry thereof); or (g) ERISA. Any of the following events or conditions, if such event or condition reasonably could be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect: (1) any "accumulated funding deficiency," as such term is defined in Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan, or any lien shall arise on the assets of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in favor of the PBGC or a Plan; (2) an ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Single Employer Plan, which is, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA; (3) an ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Multiemployer Plan or Multiple Employer Plan, which is, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, likely to result in (i) the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, or (ii) the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate incurring any liability in connection with a withdrawal from, reorganization of (within the meaning of Section 4241 of ERISA), or insolvency or (within the meaning of Section 4245 of ERISA) such Plan; or (4) any prohibited transaction (within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code) or breach of fiduciary responsibility shall occur which may subject the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate to any liability - 44 -
under Sections 406, 409, 502(i), or 502(l) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, or under any agreement or other instrument pursuant to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate has agreed or is required to indemnify any person against any such liability. 8.2 ACCELERATION; REMEDIES. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, and at any time thereafter unless and until such Event of Default has been waived by the Required Lenders or cured to the satisfaction of the Required Lenders (pursuant to the voting procedures in Section 10.6), the Administrative Agent shall, upon the request and direction of the Required Lenders, by written notice to the Borrower take any of the following actions: (a) Termination of Term Loan Commitments. Declare the Term Loan Commitment of each Lender terminated, whereupon such commitments shall be terminated. (b) Acceleration. Declare the unpaid principal of and any accrued interest in respect of all Loans and any and all other indebtedness or obligations of any and every kind owing by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Lenders hereunder to be due whereupon the same shall be immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. (c) Enforcement of Rights. Enforce any and all rights and interests created and existing under the Credit Documents and all rights of set-off. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in Section 8.1(d) shall occur, then all Loans, all accrued interest in respect thereof, all accrued and unpaid Fees and other indebtedness or obligations owing to the Administrative Agent and/or any of the Lenders hereunder in respect thereof automatically shall immediately become due and payable without the giving of any notice or other action by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders. SECTION 9 AGENCY PROVISIONS 9.1 APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY. Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Fleet (and Fleet hereby accepts such appointment) to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Credit Documents (in accordance with the role established for the Administrative Agent in this Credit Agreement and such other Credit Documents) and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative - 45 -
Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Section are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions. 9.2 RIGHTS AS A LENDER. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders. 9.3 EXCULPATORY PROVISIONS. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent: (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing; (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Credit Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Credit Documents), provided that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Credit Document or applicable law; and (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 10.01 and 8.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent - 46 -
shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or Event of Default unless and until notice describing such Default or Event of Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Credit Agreement, any other Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Section 4 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent. 9.4 RELIANCE BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any note, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, cablegram, telegram, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation reasonably believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the Borrower, independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent with reasonable care). The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the Lenders as the owner of their respective interests hereunder for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 10.3(b) hereof. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Credit Agreement or under any of the other Credit Documents unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents in accordance with a request of the Required Lenders (or to the extent specifically provided in Section 10.6, all the Lenders) and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders (including their successors and assigns). In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. 9.5 DELEGATION OF DUTIES. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Credit Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such - 47 -
sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Section shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. 9.6 RESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT. The Administrative Agent may at any time resign upon 20 days' written notice to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States; provided that, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such successor Administrative Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; provided that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section and (3) the retiring Administrative Agent will provide to the Borrower and the Lenders reasonable access to the Register and/or copies of each Lender's Administrative Questionnaire. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Credit Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, the provisions of this Section and Section 10.5 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent. 9.7 NON-RELIANCE ON ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND OTHER LENDERS. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Credit Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, - 48 -
independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Credit Agreement, any other Credit Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. 9.8 NO OTHER DUTIES, ETC. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Book Managers, Arrangers or other titles listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder. 9.9 ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT MAY FILE PROOFS OF CLAIM. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under Sections 3.5 and 10.5) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under Sections 3.5 and 10.5. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or - 49 -
to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding. SECTION 10 MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 NOTICES; EFFECTIVENESS; ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION. (a) Notices Generally. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows: (i) if to the Borrower: AutoZone, Inc. 123 South Front Street Memphis, TN 38103 Attn: Chief Financial Officer Telephone: (901) 495-7897 Telecopy: (901) 495-8317 Website: www.autozone.com with a copy to the Treasurer and to the General Counsel for the Borrower at the same address; (ii) if to the Administrative Agent (for payments and requests for Credit Extensions): Fleet National Bank Agency Services 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor NY5-526-28-01 New York, NY 10019 Attn: Brenda Barnett Telephone: (646) 366-4512 Telecopy: (646) 366-4508 Other notices to the Administrative Agent: Bank of America, N.A. 100 N. Tryon Street - 50 -
NC 1-007-14-24 Charlotte, NC 28255-0001 Attn: Kimberly Crane Telephone: (704) 387-5451 Telecopy: (704) 409-0901 (iii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire. Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b). (b) Electronic Communications. Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to Section 2 if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Section by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications. Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), provided that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor. (c) Change of Address, Etc. Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. (d) Reliance by Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon, in good faith, any notices purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower and reasonably understood by the Administrative Agent and/or the Lenders, as - 51 -
applicable, to be authentic even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower (but excluding any such losses, costs, expenses and liabilities that (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent or such Related Party or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against the Administrative Agent or such Related Party for breach in bad faith of such party's obligations hereunder or under any other Credit Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction). All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording. 10.2 RIGHT OF SET-OFF. In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable law, and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind (all of which rights being hereby expressly waived), to set-off and to appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Lender (including, without limitation, branches, agencies or Affiliates of such Lender wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against obligations and liabilities of such Person to such Lender hereunder, under the Notes or the other Credit Documents, irrespective of whether such Lender shall have made any demand hereunder and although such obligations, liabilities or claims, or any of them, may be contingent or unmatured, and any such set-off shall be deemed to have been made immediately upon the occurrence of an Event of Default even though such charge is made or entered on the books of such Lender subsequent thereto. Any Person purchasing a participation in the Loans and Commitments hereunder pursuant to Section 3.13 or Section 10.3(d) may exercise all rights of set-off with respect to its participation interest as fully as if such Person were a Lender hereunder. 10.3 BENEFIT OF AGREEMENT. (a) Generally. This Credit Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided that the Borrower may not assign or transfer any of its interests without prior written consent of the Lenders other than in connection with a Reorganization permitted by Section 7.3 hereof; provided further that the rights of each Lender to transfer, assign or grant participations in its rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be limited as set forth in this Section 10.3, provided however that nothing herein shall prevent or prohibit any Lender from (i) pledging its Loans hereunder to a Federal Reserve Bank in support of borrowings made by such Lender from such Federal Reserve Bank, or (ii) granting assignments or - 52 -
selling participations in such Lender's Loans and/or Commitments hereunder to its parent company and/or to any Affiliate or Subsidiary of such Lender. (b) Assignments. Each Lender may assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations hereunder, pursuant to an assignment agreement substantially in the form of Schedule 10.3(b), to (i) any Lender or any Affiliate or Subsidiary of a Lender, or (ii) any other commercial bank, financial institution or "accredited investor" (as defined in Regulation D of the Securities and Exchange Commission) that is reasonably acceptable to both the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower, with each such consent to be evidenced in writing; provided that any such assignment (other than any assignment to an existing Lender) shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 (or, if less, the remaining amount of the Loans being assigned by such Lender) and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 above such amount. Any assignment hereunder shall be effective upon delivery to the Administrative Agent of written notice of the assignment together with a transfer fee of $3,500 payable to the Administrative Agent for its own account (unless such fee is waived by the Administrative Agent) from and after the later of (i) the effective date specified in the applicable assignment agreement and (ii) the date of recording of such assignment in the Register pursuant to the terms of subsection (c) below. The assigning Lender will give prompt notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower of any such assignment. Upon the effectiveness of any such assignment (and after notice to, and (to the extent required pursuant to the terms hereof), with the consent of, the Borrower as provided herein), the assignee shall become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and, to the extent of such assignment, the assigning Lender shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder to the extent of the Loans and Commitment components being assigned. Along such lines the Borrower agrees that upon (i) notice of any such assignment to a new Lender and (ii) the request of such new Lender, it will promptly execute and deliver to such new Lender a Note substantially in the form of Schedule 2.1(e). In the event a Lender assigns the entire amount of such Lender's Loans, such assigning Lender agrees to surrender its Note, if any, to the Borrower. By executing and delivering an assignment agreement in accordance with this Section 10.3(b), the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) except as set forth in clause (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto or the financial condition of the Borrower or any of its respective Affiliates or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (iii) such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such assignment agreement; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of - 53 -
this Credit Agreement, the other Credit Documents and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such assignment agreement; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations which by the terms of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender. If the assignee is not a United States person under Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a valid certification as to exemption from deduction or withholding of taxes in accordance with Section 3.10. (c) Maintenance of Register. The Administrative Agent shall maintain at one of its offices in Boston, Massachusetts (i) a copy of each Lender assignment agreement delivered to it in accordance with the terms of subsection (b) above and (ii) a register for the recordation of the identity of the principal amount, type and Interest Period of each Loan outstanding hereunder, the names, addresses and the Commitments of the Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The Administrative Agent will make reasonable efforts to maintain the accuracy of the Register and to promptly update the Register from time to time, as necessary. The Register shall be prima facie, but not conclusive, evidence of the information contained therein and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Credit Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and each Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. (d) Participations. Each Lender may sell, transfer, grant or assign participations in all or any part of such Lender's interests and obligations hereunder; provided that (i) such selling Lender shall remain a "Lender" for all purposes under this Credit Agreement (such selling Lender's obligations under the Credit Documents remaining unchanged) and the participant shall not constitute a Lender hereunder, (ii) no such participant shall have, or be granted, rights to approve any amendment or waiver relating to this Credit Agreement or the other Credit Documents except to the extent any such amendment or waiver would (A) reduce the principal of or rate of interest on or Fees in respect of any Loans in which the participant is participating or (B) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal (including extension of the Termination Date or the date of any mandatory prepayment), interest or Fees in which the participant is participating, and (iii) sub-participations by the participant (except to an affiliate, parent company or affiliate of a parent company of the participant) shall be prohibited. In the case of any such participation, the participant shall not have any rights under this Credit Agreement or the other Credit Documents (the participant's rights against the selling Lender in respect of such participation to be those set - 54 -
forth in the participation agreement with such Lender creating such participation) and all amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participation, provided, however, that such participant shall be entitled to receive additional amounts under Sections 3.6, 3.9 and 3.11 on the same basis as if it were a Lender provided that it shall not be entitled to receive any more than the selling Lender would have received had it not sold the participation. (e) Designation. (i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "Designating Lender") may grant to one or more special purpose funding vehicles (each, an "SPV"), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Designating Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Designating Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Credit Agreement; provided that (I) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make any Loan, (II) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Designating Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof, (III) the Designating Lender shall remain liable for any indemnity or other payment obligation with respect to its Commitment hereunder and (IV) each such SPV would satisfy the requirements of Section 3.10 if such SPV was a Lender hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Designating Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Designating Lender. (ii) As to any Loans or portion thereof made by it, each SPV shall have all the rights that a Lender making such Loans or portion thereof would have had under this Credit Agreement; provided, however that each SPV shall have granted to its Designating Lender an irrevocable power of attorney, to deliver and receive all communications and notices under this Credit Agreement (and any related documents) and to exercise on such SPV's behalf, all of such SPV's voting rights under this Credit Agreement. No additional Note shall be required to evidence the Loans or portion thereof made by an SPV; and the related Designating Lender shall be deemed to hold its Note as agent for such SPV to the extent of the Loans or portion thereof funded by such SPV. In addition, any payments for the account of any SPV shall be paid to its Designating Lender as agent for such SPV. (iii) Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be liable for any indemnity or payment under this Credit Agreement for which a Lender would otherwise be liable for so long as, and to the extent, the Designating Lender provides such indemnity or makes such payment. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding prior indebtedness of any SPV, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPV any - 55 -
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings or similar proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. (iv) In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 10.3 or otherwise in this Credit Agreement, any SPV may (I) at any time and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign or participate all or a portion of its interest in any Loans to the Designating Lender (or to any other SPV of such Designating Lender) or to any financial institutions providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (II) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancements to such SPV. This Section 10.3 may not be amended without the written consent of any Designating Lender affected thereby. 10.4 NO WAIVER; REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. No failure or delay on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document and no course of dealing between the Administrative Agent or any Lender and the Borrower shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder or thereunder. The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which the Administrative Agent or any Lender would otherwise have. No notice to or demand on the Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances or constitute a waiver of the rights of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders to any other or further action in any circumstances without notice or demand. 10.5 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES, ETC. The Borrower agrees to: (a) pay all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (i) of the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers (and their respective Affiliates) in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery and administration of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents and the documents and instruments referred to therein (including, subject to any agreed upon limitations, the reasonable fees and expenses of Moore & Van Allen, PLLC, special counsel to the Administrative Agent and non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) and any amendment, waiver or consent relating hereto and thereto including, but not limited to, any such amendments, waivers or consents resulting from or related to any work-out, renegotiation or restructure relating to the performance by the Borrower under this Credit Agreement and (ii) of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (and their respective Affiliates) in connection with enforcement of the Credit Documents and the documents and instruments referred to therein (including, without limitation, in connection with any such enforcement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel (including non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) for the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders); (b) pay and hold each of the Lenders harmless - 56 -
from and against any and all future stamp and other similar taxes with respect to the foregoing matters and save each of the Lenders harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay or omission (other than to the extent attributable to such Lender) to pay such taxes; and (c) indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender, and their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives, agents and Affiliates (each an "Indemnitee") from and hold each of them harmless against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses incurred by any of them as a result of, or arising out of, or in any way related to, or by reason of (i) any investigation, litigation or other proceeding (whether or not the Administrative Agent or any Lender is a party thereto, but excluding any investigation initiated by the Person seeking indemnification hereunder) related to the entering into and/or performance of any Credit Document or the use of proceeds of any Loans (including other extensions of credit) hereunder or the consummation of any other transactions contemplated in any Credit Document, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel (including non-duplicative allocated costs of internal counsel) incurred in connection with any such investigation, litigation or other proceeding or (ii) the presence or Release of any Materials of Environmental Concern at, under or from any Property owned, operated or leased by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or the failure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with any Environmental Law (but excluding, in the case of either of clause (i) or (ii) above, any such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses that (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Credit Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction). In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any Lender be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of any information or other materials obtained through IntraLinks or other similar information transmission systems in connection with this Credit Agreement, nor shall the Administrative Agent or any Lender have any liability for any indirect or consequential damages relating to this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or arising out of its activities in connection herewith or therewith (whether before or after the Closing Date). 10.6 AMENDMENTS, WAIVERS AND CONSENTS. Neither this Credit Agreement nor any other Credit Document nor any of the terms hereof or thereof may be amended, changed, waived, discharged or terminated unless such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination is in writing entered into by, or approved in writing by, the Required Lenders and the Borrower, provided, however, that: (a) no such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (i) reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest (other than as a result of (x) waiving the applicability of any post-default increase in interest rates or (y) an amendment approved by the Required Lenders as set forth in the definition of "Applicable Percentage" following the withdrawal by S&P and Moody's of their ratings on the Borrower's senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt) on any Loan or fees hereunder, (ii) reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of any fees - 57 -
owing hereunder, (iii) extend (A) the Commitments of the Lenders, or (B) the final maturity of any Loan, or any portion thereof, or (iv) reduce the principal amount on any Loan; (b) no such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (i) increase the Commitments of the Lenders over the amount thereof in effect (it being understood and agreed that a waiver of any Default or Event of Default shall not constitute a change in the terms of any Commitment of any Lender), (ii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this Section 10.6 or Section 3.6, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 8.1(a), 10.2, 10.3, 10.5 or 10.9, (iii) reduce or increase any percentage specified in, or otherwise modify, the definition of "Required Lenders," or (iv) consent to the assignment or transfer by the Borrower of any of its rights and obligations under (or in respect of) the Credit Documents to which it is a party; (c) no provision of Section 9 may be amended without the consent of the Administrative Agent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; and (d) designation of the Master Account or of any Financial Officer may not be made without the written consent of at least two Financial Officers of the Borrower. 10.7 COUNTERPARTS. This Credit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Credit Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart. 10.8 HEADINGS. The headings of the sections and subsections hereof are provided for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Credit Agreement. 10.9 SURVIVAL. All indemnities set forth herein, including, without limitation, in Section 3.9, 3.11, 9.7 or 10.5 shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the making of the Loans, the repayment of the Loans and other obligations under the Credit Documents and the termination of the Commitments hereunder, and all representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein shall survive delivery of the Notes and the making of the Loans hereunder. 10.10 GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; VENUE. (a) THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Credit Agreement or any - 58 -
other Credit Document may be brought in the courts of the State of New York in New York County, or of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and, by execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby irrevocably accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, the nonexclusive jurisdiction of such courts. The Borrower further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to it at the address set out for notices pursuant to Section 10.1, such service to become effective three (3) days after such mailing. Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or to otherwise proceed against the Borrower in any other jurisdiction. (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document brought in the courts referred to in subsection (a) hereof and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. (c) TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY OF THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. 10.11 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of any of the Credit Documents is determined to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be fully severable and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be construed without giving effect to the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. 10.12 ENTIRETY. This Credit Agreement together with the other Credit Documents represent the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, if any, including any commitment letters or correspondence relating to the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated herein and therein. 10.13 BINDING EFFECT; TERMINATION. (a) This Credit Agreement shall become effective at such time on or after the Closing Date when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received copies hereof (telefaxed or otherwise) which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each Lender, and thereafter - 59 -
this Credit Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns. (b) The term of this Credit Agreement shall be until no Loans or any other amounts payable hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents shall remain outstanding and until all of the Commitments hereunder shall have expired or been terminated. 10.14 CONFIDENTIALITY. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders agree to keep confidential (and to cause their respective affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives to keep confidential) all information, materials and documents furnished to the Administrative Agent or any such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower (whether before or after the Closing Date) which relates to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (the "Information"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be permitted to disclose Information (i) to its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives in connection with its participation in any of the transactions evidenced by this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents or the administration of this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents; (ii) to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, or requested by any Governmental Authority; (iii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Credit Agreement or any agreement entered into pursuant to clause (iv) below, (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or such Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or (C) was available to the Administrative Agent or such Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure to the Administrative Agent or such Lender by the Borrower; (iv) to any actual or prospective assignee, participant or counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap, hedge, securitization or derivative transaction relating to any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or relating to the Borrower and its obligations so long as such actual or prospective assignee, participant or counterparty (or its advisor) first specifically agrees in a writing furnished to and for the benefit of the Borrower to be bound by that terms of this Section 10.14; (v) to the extent required in connection with the exercise of remedies under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Documents; or (vi) to the extent that the Borrower shall have consented in writing to such disclosure. Nothing set forth in this Section 10.14 shall obligate the Administrative Agent or any Lender to return any materials furnished by the Borrower. 10.15 SOURCE OF FUNDS. Each of the Lenders hereby represents and warrants to the Borrower that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to the source of funds used by such Lender in connection with the financing hereunder: (a) no part of such funds constitutes assets allocated to any separate account (as such term is defined in Section 3(17) of ERISA) maintained by such Lender in which any employee benefit plan (or its related trust) has any interest; - 60 -
(b) the source is either (i) an insurance company pooled separate account, within the meaning of Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption ("PTE") 90-1 (issued by the United States Department of Labor January 29, 1990), or (ii) a bank collective investment fund, within the meaning of PTE 91-38 (issued June 12, 1991 and amended by PTE 2002-13 (issued March 1, 2002)), the requirements of Section III(b) of PTE 90-1 or Section III(b) of PTE 91-38 are and will continue to be satisfied, and no employee benefit plan or group of plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization beneficially owns more than 10% of all assets allocated to such pooled separate account or collective investment fund; (c) the source is an "insurance company general account" within the meaning of PTE 95-60 (issued July 12, 1995 and amended by PTE 2002-13 (issued March 1, 2002)) and there is no employee benefit plan, treating as a single plan all plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization, with respect to which the amount of the general account reserves and liabilities for all contracts held by or on behalf of such plan, exceeds ten percent (10%) of the total reserves and liabilities of such general account (exclusive of separate account liabilities) plus surplus, as set forth in the NAIC Annual Statement for such Lender most recently filed with such Lender's state of domicile; (d) the source constitutes assets of an "investment fund" (within the meaning of Part V of PTE 84-14 issued March 13, 1984 and amended by PTE 2002-13 (issued March 1, 2002) (the "QPAM Exemption")) managed by a "qualified professional asset manager" or "QPAM" (within the meaning of Part V of the QPAM Exemption), and the applicable conditions of the QPAM Exemption are satisfied; or (e) such funds constitute assets of one or more employee benefit plans which such Lender has identified in writing to the Borrower. As used in this Section 10.15, the term "employee benefit plan" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3(3) of ERISA. 10.16 CONFLICT. To the extent that there is a conflict or inconsistency between any provision hereof, on the one hand, and any provision of any Credit Document, on the other hand, this Credit Agreement shall control. 10.177 USA PATRIOT ACT NOTICE. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other - 61 -
information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written. BORROWER: AUTOZONE, INC. By: /s/ Michael G. Archbold ---------------------------------- Name: Michael G. Archbold Title: EVP & CFO By: /s/ Harry L. Goldsmith ---------------------------------- Name: Harry L. Goldsmith Title: Sr. Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel - 62 -
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT: FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Administrative Agent By: /s/ Kendra Chase ---------------------------------- Name: Kendra Chase Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
LENDERS: FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as a Lender By: /s/ Dan M. Killian ---------------------------------- Name: Dan M. Killian Title: Senior Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Kevin P. Shea ---------------------------------- Name: Kevin P. Shea Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
BNP PARIBAS By: /s/ John Stacy ---------------------------------- Name: John Stacy Title: Managing Director By: /s/ Craig Pierce ---------------------------------- Name: Craig Pierce Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
REGIONS BANK By: /s/ Coney Burgess ---------------------------------- Name: Coney Burgess Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH By: /s/ Philippe Soustra ---------------------------------- Name: Philippe Soustra Title: Executive Vice President By: /s/ Attila Coach ---------------------------------- Name: Attila Coach Title: Managing Director AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK (USA) By: /s/ Bertram Tang ---------------------------------- Name: Bertram Tang Title: Senior Vice President & Team Leader AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A. By: /s/ Timothy P. Streb ---------------------------------- Name: Timothy P. Streb Title: Senior Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
FIFTH THIRD BANK, N.A. By: /s/ David J. Hicks ---------------------------------- Name: David J. Hicks Title: Vice President & Managing Director AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Gregory L. Dryden ---------------------------------- Name: Gregory L. Dryden Title: Senior Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
THE BANK OF NEW YORK By: /s/ Lucille C. Madden ---------------------------------- Name: Lucille C. Madden Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
NATIONAL CITY BANK By: /s/ Ralph A. Kaparos ---------------------------------- Name: Ralph A. Kaparos Title: Senior Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD. By: /s/ Linda Terry ---------------------------------- Name: Linda Terry Title: Vice President AUTOZONE, INC. DECEMBER 2004
COMERICA BANK By: /s/ Heather A. Whiting ---------------------------------- Name: Heather A. Whiting Title: Account Officer
SCHEDULE 1.1(a) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE The Applicable Percentage shall be based on the applicable Pricing Level corresponding to the Rating(s) then in effect. In the event of a Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the higher Rating. In the event of a Double Split Rating, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on the Pricing Level which is one above that corresponding to the lower Rating. If no Rating exists, the applicable Pricing Level shall be based on Pricing Level V until the earlier of (A) such time as S&P and/or Moody's provides another Rating or (B) the Required Lenders have agreed to an alternative pricing grid or other method for determining Pricing Levels pursuant to an effective amendment to this Credit Agreement. As used herein: "Rating" means the senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating of the Borrower, as published by S&P and/or Moody's. "Split Rating" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are not more than one Pricing Level apart. "Double Split Rating" means the ratings of S&P and Moody's would indicate different Pricing Levels, but the Pricing Levels are two or more Pricing Levels apart.
SCHEDULE 1.1(b) FORM OF NOTICE OF BORROWING Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor NY5-526-28-01 New York, NY 10019 Attn: Agency Services Ladies and Gentlemen: The undersigned, AUTOZONE, INC. (the "Borrower"), refers to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among the Borrower, the Lenders, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower hereby gives notice pursuant to the definition of "Funding Date" in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement that it requests the Term Loan under the Credit Agreement, and in connection therewith sets forth below the terms on which such Loan advance is requested to be made: (A) Date of Borrowing (which is a Business Day) December 30, 2004 (B) Principal Amount of Borrowing $300,000,000.00 (C) Interest rate basis _______________________ (D) Interest Period and the last day thereof _______________________ In accordance with the requirements of Section 4.2, the Borrower hereby reaffirms the representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement as provided in subsection (b) of such Section, and confirms that the matters referenced in subsections (c) and (d) of such Section, are true and correct. Very truly yours, AUTOZONE, INC. By: Name: Title:
SCHEDULE 2.1(a) LENDERS
SCHEDULE 2.1(e) FORM OF TERM NOTE December 23, 2004 FOR VALUE RECEIVED, AUTOZONE, INC., a Nevada corporation (the "Borrower"), hereby promises to pay to the order of [NAME OF LENDING INSTITUTION], its successors and assigns (the "Lender"), at the office of Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent"), at 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor, NY5-526-28-01, New York, NY 10019, Attn: Agency Services (or at such other place or places as the holder hereof may designate), on the Termination Date as set forth in the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2004, among the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (as it may be amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"; all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement), in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage of the Term Loan, and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at said office, on the dates and at the rates selected in accordance with Section 2.1(d) of the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest as provided in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement. Further, in the event the payment of all sums due hereunder is accelerated under the terms of the Credit Agreement, this Note, and all other indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. In the event this Note is not paid when due at any stated or accelerated maturity, the Borrower agrees to pay, in addition to the principal and interest, all costs of collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto. This Note and the Loans evidenced hereby may be transferred in whole or in part only by registration of such transfer on the Register maintained by or on behalf of the Borrower as provided in Section 10.3(c) of the Credit Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be duly executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written. AUTOZONE, INC. By: __________________________________ Name: ________________________________ Title: _______________________________ By: __________________________________ Name: ________________________________ Title: _______________________________
SCHEDULE 3.2 FORM OF NOTICE OF EXTENSION/CONVERSION Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor NY5-526-28-01 New York, NY 10019 Attn: Agency Services Ladies and Gentlemen: The undersigned, AutoZone, Inc. (the "Borrower"), refers to the Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among the Borrower, the Lenders, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower hereby gives notice pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Credit Agreement that it requests an extension or conversion of a Term Loan outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and in connection therewith sets forth below the terms on which such extension or conversion is requested to be made: (A) Date of Extension or Conversion (which is the last day of the the applicable Interest Period) _______________________ (B) Principal Amount of Extension or Conversion _______________________ (C) Interest rate basis _______________________ (D) Circle one: (i) [Interest Period and the last day thereof] _______________________ OR (ii) [Automatic rolling subsequent three-month Interest Periods] N/A Very truly yours, AUTOZONE, INC. By: __________________________________ Name: ________________________________ Title: _______________________________
SCHEDULE 4.1(f) FORM OF LEGAL OPINION December 23, 2004 Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders 1633 Broadway, 28th Floor NY5-526-28-01 New York, NY 10019 Attn: Agency Services RE: AutoZone, Inc. Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 Ladies and Gentlemen: I am the Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation ("AutoZone"), and am familiar with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 among AutoZone, Inc., as Borrower, the several Lenders from time to time party thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent ("Credit Agreement"). Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this opinion which are specifically defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement. In connection with the opinions expressed below, I have examined, or caused to be examined, the Credit Documents. I have relied upon the representations and warranties contained in each of such documents and upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to my satisfaction, of such corporate records, documents and other instruments as in my judgment are relevant to rendering the opinions expressed below. As to all matters of fact covered by such documents, I have relied, without independent investigation or verification on such documents. In such examination, I have assumed that each of the parties to the Credit Agreement, other than AutoZone, had and has, as the case may be, full power, authority and legal right to enter into each Credit Document to which it is a party and that each such Credit Document was or has been, as the case may be, duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of such parties. Based on the foregoing, it is my opinion that: (i) Each of AutoZone and its subsidiaries has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation or limited partnership under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, with corporate or partnership, as the case may be, power and authority to own its properties and conduct its ordinary course of business;
(ii) Each of AutoZone and its subsidiaries has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited partnership, as the case may be, for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties, or conducts any business, so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction; (iii) Each of the Credit Documents to which AutoZone is a party, was or has been, as the case may be, duly authorized, executed and delivered by AutoZone and together constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of AutoZone enforceable against AutoZone in accordance with its and their terms. The opinions expressed in paragraph (iii) above are based upon the assumption for purposes of such opinions and without independent analysis that notwithstanding the respective choice of law clauses in the Credit Documents, the governing law with respect to each of the Credit Documents is identical in all relevant respects to the law of the State of Tennessee. Insofar as such opinion relates to the enforceability of any instrument, such enforceability is subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). The enforceability of the remedies provided under the Credit Agreement may also be limited by applicable laws which may affect the remedies provided therein but which do not in my opinion affect the validity of the Credit Agreement or make such remedies inadequate for the practical realization of the benefits intended to be provided. I do not express any opinion as to matters governed by any law other than the Federal laws of the United States of America, the corporation law of the State of Nevada and the laws of the State of Tennessee. Further, I express no opinion as to the enforceability of the choice of law provisions contained in any of the Credit Documents. This opinion is rendered solely for your benefit in connection with the transactions described above. This opinion may not be used or relied upon by any other person, and may not be disclosed, quoted, filed with a governmental agency or otherwise referred to without my prior written consent except to your bank examiners, auditors and counsel and to prospective transferees of your interests under the Credit Documents and their professional advisers, or as required by law or pursuant to legal process. Very truly yours, Harry L. Goldsmith
SCHEDULE 5.5 MATERIAL LITIGATION AutoZone, Inc. ("AutoZone" or the "Company") is a defendant in a lawsuit entitled "Coalition for a Level Playing Field, L.L.C., et al., v. AutoZone, Inc. et al.," filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in October 2004. The case was filed by approximately 159 plaintiffs, which are principally automotive aftermarket warehouse distributors and jobbers, against 18 defendants, five of which are principally automotive afterparts retailers and 13 of which are principally afterparts manufacturers. The plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that the automotive afterparts retailer defendants have conspired with the afterparts manufacturer defendants to receive benefits such as volume discounts, rebates, early buy allowances and other allowances, fees, inventory without payment, sham advertising and promotional payments, a share in the manufacturers' profits and excessive payments for services purportedly performed for the manufacturers in violation of the Robinson-Patman Act and the Sherman Act (collectively, the "Acts"). Additionally, a subset of plaintiffs alleges a claim of fraud against the automotive afterparts retailer defendants based on discovery issues in a prior litigation involving similar Robinson-Patman Act claims. In the prior litigation, the discovery dispute, as well as the underlying claims, was decided in favor of AutoZone and the other automotive afterparts retailer defendants who proceeded to trial, pursuant to a unanimous jury verdict which was affirmed by the Second Circuit. In the current litigation, Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages (including statutory trebling), attorneys' fees, and a permanent injunction prohibiting the afterparts retailer defendants from inducing and/or knowingly receiving discriminatory prices from any of the afterparts manufacturer defendants and from opening up any further stores to compete with plaintiffs as long as defendants allegedly continue to violate the Acts. The Company believes this suit to be without merit and will vigorously defend against it. The Company currently, and from time to time, is involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of its business. Although the amount of liability that may result from these proceedings cannot be ascertained, the Company does not currently believe that in the aggregate, these other matters will result in liabilities material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SCHEDULE 5.12 SUBSIDIARIES AutoZone, Inc. as of October 20, 2004 Status: Active Incorporation Nevada Federal ID# 62-1482048 Subsidiaries AutoZone Northeast, Inc. AutoZone Operations, Inc. ALLDATA LLC AutoZone de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. AutoZone Development Corporation AutoZone Mississippi Properties, Inc. AutoZone Properties, Inc. AutoZone Stores, Inc. AutoZone Mississippi, Inc. AutoZone Texas, L.P. AutoZone.com, Inc. AutoZoners, Inc. AutoZone West, Inc. DataZone, S. de R.L. de C.V. Service Zone, S. de R. L. de C.V. AutoZone Parts, Inc. AZTP Holdings, LLC Zone Compra, S. de R.L. de C.V. AZ Texas Operations, LLC AZer California, LLC AZer Texas, LLC Venus Initiative, LLC Zona Automovilistica, Inc. Riverside Captive Insurance Company 60 Madison Avenue, LLC
SCHEDULE 6.1(c) FORM OF OFFICER'S COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE For the fiscal quarter ended _________________, 20___. I, ______________________, [Title] of AutoZone, Inc. (the "Borrower") hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, with respect to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"; all of the defined terms in the Credit Agreement are incorporated herein by reference) among the Borrower, the Lenders party thereto, Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent: a. The company-prepared financial statements which accompany this certificate are true and correct in all material respects and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from normal year-end audit adjustments; b. Since ___________ (the date of the last similar certification, or, if none, the Closing Date) no Default or Event of Default has occurred under the Credit Agreement; and c. The Borrower's current senior unsecured (non-credit enhanced) long term debt rating from S&P is __________ and from Moody's is __________ . Delivered herewith are detailed calculations demonstrating compliance by the Borrower with the financial covenants contained in Section 6.10 and Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to above. This ______ day of ___________, 20__. AUTOZONE, INC. By: __________________________________ Name: ________________________________ Title: _______________________________
ATTACHMENT TO OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE COMPUTATION OF FINANCIAL COVENANTS
SCHEDULE 7.5 SUBSIDIARY INDEBTEDNESS AutoZone, Inc. as of October 20, 2004 Subsidiary Indebtedness
SCHEDULE 10.3(b) FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION This Assignment and Assumption (this "Assignment and Assumption") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [Insert name of Assignor] (the "Assignor") and [Insert name of Assignee] (the "Assignee"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the "Credit Agreement"), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full. For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the "Assigned Interest"). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor. 1. Assignor: ______________________________ 2. Assignee: ______________________________ [and is an Affiliate/Approved Fund of [identify Lender]] 3. Borrower(s): AUTOZONE, INC. (the "Company") 4. Administrative Agent: FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as the administrative agent under the Credit Agreement
5. Credit Agreement: Credit Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2004, among the Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent. 6. Assigned Interest: [7. Trade Date: __________________](2) Effective Date: __________________, 20__ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.] The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to: ASSIGNOR -------- [NAME OF ASSIGNOR] By: ____________________________ Title: ASSIGNEE -------- [NAME OF ASSIGNEE] By: ____________________________ Title: - ---------------- *Amount to be adjusted by the counterparties to take into account any payments or prepayments made between the Trade Date and the Effective Date. (1) Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment of all Lenders thereunder. (2) To be completed if the Assignor and the Assignee intend that the minimum assignment amount is to be determined as of the Trade Date.
[Consented to and](3) Accepted: FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as Administrative Agent By: _________________________________ Title: [Consented to:](4) By: _________________________________ Title: - ------------------ (3) To be added only if the consent of the Administrative Agent is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement. (4) To be added only if the consent of the Company is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION 1. Representations and Warranties. 1.1. Assignor. The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document. 1.2. Assignee. The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an Eligible Assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.07 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender. 2. Payments. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
3. General Provisions. This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.


