FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20070606194633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
On June 6, 2007, AutoZone, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of the Company's common stock in connection with its ongoing share repurchase program. The Company also announced that William C. Rhodes, III, was elected Chairman of the Board. Mr. Rhodes' new title is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. He replaces J.R. Hyde, III as Chairman. Mr. Hyde will remain a member of the Board. The Board also named W. Andrew McKenna as Lead Director. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      Exhibits
99.1   Press Release dated June 6, 2007.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 6, 2007 (PRIME NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO) today announced its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of the Company's common stock in connection with its ongoing share repurchase program. Including the above amount, the share repurchase authorization now totals $5.9 billion.
"AutoZone's strong financial performance has allowed us to continue to repurchase our stock while maintaining strong credit metrics," said Bill Giles, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Information Technology and Store Development. "We will continue to utilize accretive share repurchases within the bounds of a disciplined capital structure to enhance shareholder returns."
Also today, the Board of Directors elected William C. Rhodes, III as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Rhodes' new title is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. He replaces J.R. Hyde, III as Chairman. Mr. Hyde will remain a member of the Board of Directors.
"Bill Rhodes has been an integral part of our Company's success for many years now, and I, along with the rest of our Board, congratulate him on being elected Chairman," said Mr. Hyde. Mr. Rhodes added, "Not only is Pitt Hyde AutoZone's founder, but he has been a mentor to me and our management team over the years. We look forward to his continued guidance as a member of our Board for many years to come."
In addition, the Board named W. Andrew McKenna as Lead Director. Mr. McKenna has been a Director since 2000.
About AutoZone:
As of May 5, 2007, AutoZone sells auto and light truck parts, chemicals and accessories through 3,881 AutoZone stores in the United States plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 110 AutoZone stores in Mexico and also sells the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software. On the web, AutoZone sells diagnostic and repair information and auto and light truck parts through www.autozone.com
CONTACT:  AutoZone, Inc.          Media:          Ray Pohlman            (901) 495-7962            ray.pohlman@autozone.com          Financial:          Brian Campbell            (901) 495-7005            brian.campbell@autozone.com


