FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20110301071536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 1, 2011, AutoZone, Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended February 12, 2011, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report pursuant to Item 2.02:
(d)     Exhibits
99.1     Release dated March 1, 2011.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1     Press Release dated March 1, 2011

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., March 1, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO) today reported net sales of $1.7 billion for its second quarter (12 weeks) ended February 12, 2011, an increase of 10.3% from the second quarter of fiscal 2010 (12 weeks). Domestic same store sales, or sales for stores open at least one year, increased 7.1% for the quarter.
Net income for the quarter increased $24.7 million, or 20.0%, over the same period last year to $148.1 million, while diluted earnings increased 35.8% to $3.34 per share from $2.46 per share in the year-ago quarter.
For the quarter, gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 50.9% (versus 50.0% for last year's quarter). The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher margins on merchandise gross (45 bps) and lower shrink expense (39 bps). The increased merchandise gross margins continued to benefit this quarter from increased penetration of Duralast product sales and lower acquisition costs. Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 34.6% (versus 34.7% last year).  The decrease in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was primarily the result of leverage on store operating expenses due to higher sales volumes, partially offset by increased incentive compensation costs (39 bps), increased investments in our hub store initiative (23 bps), higher advertising expenditures (22 bps), and an unfavorable comparison to last year's second quarter credit card class action settlement (17 bps). 
Under its share repurchase program, AutoZone repurchased 1.5 million shares of its common stock for $394 million during the second quarter, at an average price of $257 per share. At quarter end, the Company had $491 million remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.
The Company's inventory increased 7.0% over the same period last year, driven by an increase in store count and continued strategic investments in hard parts assortment. 
"We are pleased to announce another quarter of strong performance. This marks the ninth consecutive quarter of 20% plus growth in earnings per share and our eighteenth consecutive quarter of double digit growth. We remain committed to executing our 2011 operating theme of "1TEAM ." We continued our focus on improving parts coverage, hiring, retaining, and training the best automotive parts professionals, and growing our Commercial business. Additionally, our return on invested capital on a trailing four-quarter basis reached another new all-time high at 29.3%. We remain committed to our disciplined approach of growing operating earnings while efficiently utilizing our capital," said Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. 
Going the Extra Mile
During the quarter ended February 12, 2011, AutoZone opened 21 new stores in the U.S. and opened 8 new stores in Mexico. As of February 12, 2011, the Company had 4,425 stores in 48 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico in the U.S. and 249 stores in Mexico.
AutoZone is the leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products. Many stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and public sector accounts. AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software. On the web at www.autozone.com, AutoZone sells auto and light truck parts and subscriptions to the ALLDATAdiy product, and its Commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. AutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.
AutoZone will host a conference call this morning, Tuesday, March 1, 2011, beginning at 10:00 a.m. (EST) to discuss its second quarter results. Investors may listen to the conference call live and review supporting slides on the AutoZone corporate website, www.autozoneinc.com by clicking "Investor Relations," "Conference Calls." The call will also be available by dialing (210) 839-8923. A replay of the call and slides will be available on AutoZone's website. In addition, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (203) 369-1211 through Tuesday, March 8, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. (EST).
This release includes certain financial information not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP measures include return on invested capital, adjusted debt, adjusted debt to EBITDAR, and cash flow before share repurchases. The Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures provides information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the Company's comparative year-to-year operating results, but this information should not be considered a substitute for any measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Management targets the Company's capital structure in order to maintain its investment grade credit ratings and manages cash flows available for share repurchase by monitoring cash flows before share repurchases, as shown on the attached tables. The Company believes this is important information for the management of its debt levels and share repurchases. We have included a reconciliation of this additio nal information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expect," "estimate," "project," "positioned," "strategy" and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regula tions. Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 28, 2010, and these Risk Factors should be read carefully. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and events described above and in the "Risk Factors" could materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results.
CONTACT: Financial:         Brian Campbell         (901) 495-7005         brian.campbell@autozone.com         Media:         Ray Pohlman         (866) 966-3017         ray.pohlman@autozone.com


