FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20111214161554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
. On December 13, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of AutoZone, Inc. (the "Company" or "AutoZone") approved the Second Amendment to the AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ("Deferred Compensation Plan"), establishing the definition of "retirement date" for amounts deferred in plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, as the date on which (A) a participant has attained the age of 55, (B) the participant has completed at least five years of full-time service with the Company, (C) the sum of the number of full-time years of service with the Company and the participant's age equals at least 65 and (D) the participant experiences a Termination of Employment as defined in the Deferred Compensation Plan. The Second Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Amendment of Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
. On December 13, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved the First Amendment to the AutoZone, Inc. Fourth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan (the "XSPP"), establishing the definition of "normal retirement date" with respect to options granted in plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, as the earliest date on which (A) a participant has attained the age of 55, (B) the participant has completed at least five years of full-time service with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and (C) the sum of the number of full-time years of service with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company and the participant's age equals at least 65. The First Amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Amendment of Executive Stock Purchase Plan
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a) AutoZone's Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on December 14, 2011.
(b) The stockholders took the following actions at the Annual Meeting:
: The stockholders elected nine directors, each of whom will hold office until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2012 and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. Each director received more votes cast "for" than votes cast "against" his or her election. The tabulation of votes with respect to each nominee for director was as follows:
Proposal 1
 
: The Audit Committee's designation of Ernst & Young LLP as AutoZone's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending August 25, 2012 was ratified by the stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 2
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
: The compensation of AutoZone's named executive officers was approved, on an advisory basis, by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 3
 
: An annual advisory vote on executive compensation was approved, on an advisory basis, by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 4
 
(d) As set forth above, a majority of the votes cast for Proposal 4 specified that future advisory votes on executive compensation should be held every year. In light of these results, the Board of Directors has determined to hold an annual stockholder advisory vote on executive compensation until the next advisory vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation, which will occur no later than AutoZone's annual meeting of stockholders in 2017.
 
The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report pursuant to Item 5.02:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 14, 2011
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
This Second Amendment ("") to the AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the ""), is adopted by the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation (the ""), effective as of December 13, 2011. Capitalized terms used in this Second Amendment and not otherwise defined shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
Second Amendment
Plan
Compensation Committee
Company
 
 
 
1. Section 2.1(o) of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
""Deferral Period" means the period of time for which a Participant elects to defer receipt of the Base Salary Deferrals, and Bonus Deferrals credited to such Participant's Account and shall be either the Retirement Date or a period of years as specified in Section 6.2. Deferral Periods shall be measured on the basis of Plan Years, beginning with the Plan Year that commences immediately following the Plan Year for which the applicable Base Salary Deferrals, and Bonus Deferrals are credited to the Participant's Account."
2. Section 2.1(cc) of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
""Retirement Date" means (i) with respect to amounts deferred in a Plan Year beginning prior to January 1, 2012, the date the Participant is eligible for and retires under any qualified retirement plan maintained by the Company (as such eligibility is in effect as of the date on which the applicable election was made); or (ii) with respect to amounts deferred in a Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2012, the date on which (A) the Participant has attained the age of 55, (B) the Participant has completed at least five years of full-time service with the Company, (C) the sum of the number of full-time years of service with the Company and the Participant's age equals at least 65 and (D) the Participant experiences a Termination of Employment."
This Second Amendment shall be and hereby is incorporated in and forms a part of the Plan. Except as expressly provided herein, all terms and conditions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
, the Compensation Committee has caused this Second Amendment to be executed by two duly authorized officers of the Company as of the 13th day of December, 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
This First Amendment ("") to the AutoZone, Inc. Fourth Amended and Restated Plan (the ""), is adopted by the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation (the ""), effective as of December 13, 2011. Capitalized terms used in this First Amendment and not otherwise defined shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan.
First Amendment
Plan
Compensation Committee
Company
 
 
 
 
""Normal Retirement Date" shall mean (i) with respect to an Option granted in a Plan Year beginning prior to January 1, 2012, a Participant's normal retirement date as set forth in the AutoZone, Inc. Associate's Pension Plan on the applicable Grant Date; or (ii) with respect to an Option granted in a Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2012, the earliest date on which (A) the Participant has attained the age of 55, (B) the Participant has completed at least five years of full-time service with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company and (C) the sum of the number of full-time years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company and the Participant's age equals at least 65."
This First Amendment shall be and hereby is incorporated in and forms a part of the Plan. Except as expressly provided herein, all terms and conditions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
, the Compensation Committee has caused this First Amendment to be executed by two duly authorized officers of the Company as of the 13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th
day of December, 2011.
 
 


