FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20111206071516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 6, 2011, AutoZone, Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended November 19, 2011, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report pursuant to Item 2.02:
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated December 6, 2011.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Dec. 6, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO) today reported net sales of $1.9 billion for its first quarter (12 weeks) ended November 19, 2011, an increase of 7.4% from the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (12 weeks). Domestic same store sales, or sales for stores open at least one year, increased 4.6% for the quarter.
Net income for the quarter increased $19.0 million, or 11.1%, over the same period last year to $191.1 million, while diluted earnings per share increased 24.0% to $4.68 per share from $3.77 per share in the year-ago quarter.
For the quarter, gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 51.1% (versus 50.7% for last year's quarter). The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower distribution costs on higher sales (23 bps), lower shrink expense (18 bps) and slightly higher merchandise margins. Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 33.4% (versus 33.6% last year). The improvement in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was due to lower incentive compensation (33 bps), favorable legal expense (32 bps) and leverage from higher sales volumes.  This leverage was partially offset by higher self insurance costs (51 bps).
Under its share repurchase program, AutoZone repurchased 954 thousand shares of its common stock for $310 million during the first quarter, at an average price of $325 per share. At quarter end, the Company had $659 million remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.
The Company's inventory increased 7.2% over the same period last year, driven by new stores and continued strategic investments in parts assortment. Inventory per store was $524 thousand versus $508 thousand last year, an increase of 3.0%.
"After three years of impressive financial performance, we are pleased to begin fiscal 2012 with strong quarterly results.  This past quarter marked our twelfth consecutive quarter of 20% growth in earnings per share and our twenty-first consecutive quarter of double digit growth. Our 4.6% same store sales and 22.6% growth in Commercial sales are both testaments to our organization's efforts to continually improve and further validation of our strategies. We continue to execute on our '1Team operating theme for 2012. Our financial success continues to be the direct result of the tremendous contributions of our more than 65,000 dedicated AutoZoners, and I am convinced it is their dedication to helping our customers that differentiates us from our competition and drives our successes. We remain focused on our disciplined approach of growing operating earnings while efficiently utilizing our capital," said Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. 
Driving our Future'
During the quarter ended November 19, 2011, AutoZone opened 17 new stores in the U.S. and 2 new stores in Mexico. As of November 19, 2011, the Company had 4,551 stores in 48 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico in the U.S. and 281 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4,832.
AutoZone is the leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products.  Many stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and public sector accounts. AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com   AutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.
.
AutoZone will host a conference call this morning, Tuesday, December 6, 2011, beginning at 10:00 a.m. (EST) to discuss its first quarter results. Investors may listen to the conference call live and review supporting slides on the AutoZone corporate website, www.autozoneinc.com by clicking "Investor Relations," "Conference Calls." The call will also be available by dialing (210) 839-8923. A replay of the call and slides will be available on AutoZone's website. In addition, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (203) 369-1211 through Tuesday, December 13, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. (EST).
This release includes certain financial information not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP measures include return on invested capital, adjusted debt, adjusted debt to EBITDAR, and cash flow before share repurchases. The Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures provides information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the Company's comparative year-to-year operating results, but this information should not be considered a substitute for any measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Management targets the Company's capital structure in order to maintain its investment grade credit ratings and manages cash flows available for share repurchase by monitoring cash flows before share repurchases, as shown on the attached tables. The Company believes this is important information for the management of its debt levels and share repurchases. We have included a reconciliation of this additional information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expect," "estimate," "project," "positioned," "strategy" and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations. Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 27, 2011, and these Risk Factors should be read carefully. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and events described above and in the "Risk Factors" could materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results.
CONTACT:  Financial:          Brian Campbell          (901) 495-7005          brian.campbell@autozone.com          Media:          Ray Pohlman          (866) 966-3017          ray.pohlman@autozone.com


