FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20121002171521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 2, 2012, AutoZone, Inc. announced that Robert D. Olsen, Corporate Development Officer, will be retiring at or around the end of the 2012 calendar year. The press release announcing Mr. Olsen's retirement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report pursuant to Item 5.02:
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated October 2, 2012.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1 Press Release dated October 2, 2012

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Oct. 2, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO), today announced that Robert D. Olsen, Corporate Development Officer, will be retiring around the end of the calendar year. "I would like to thank Bob for his many contributions to our organization over the last twelve years. His leadership across the organization has been invaluable and the development of our Mexico and ALLDATA businesses under his guidance has been tremendous. While we certainly will miss Bob, we wish him all the best on his retirement and all his future endeavors," said Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President and CEO.
About AutoZone:
As of August 25, 2012, AutoZone sells auto and light truck parts, chemicals and accessories through 4,685 AutoZone stores in 49 U.S. states plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 321 stores in Mexico.
AutoZone is the leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products. Many stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and public sector accounts. AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, non-automotive products and subscriptions to the ALLDATAdiy product through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.comAutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.
.
CONTACT: Media:         Ray Pohlman         866-966-3017         ray.pohlman@autozone.com         Financial:         Brian Campbell         901 495-7005         brian.campbell@autozone.com


