FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20121204071619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 4, 2012, AutoZone, Inc. issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended November 17, 2012, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report pursuant to Item 2.02:
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated December 4, 2012.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1 Press Release dated December 4, 2012

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Dec. 4, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO) today reported net sales of $2.0 billion for its first quarter (12 weeks) ended November 17, 2012, an increase of 3.5% from the first quarter of fiscal 2012 (12 weeks). Domestic same store sales, or sales for stores open at least one year, increased 0.2% for the quarter.
Net income for the quarter increased $12.3 million, or 6.4%, over the same period last year to $203.5 million, while diluted earnings per share increased 15.7% to $5.41 per share from $4.68 per share in the year-ago quarter.
For the quarter, gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 51.8% (versus 51.1% for last year's quarter). The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to an improvement in merchandise margins (53 bps) driven by lower acquisition costs and lower shrink expense. Operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 33.6% (versus 33.4% last year). The increase in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was negatively impacted by higher store payroll (34 bps), partially offset by lower advertising expense.
Under its share repurchase program, AutoZone repurchased 855 thousand shares of its common stock for $317 million during the first quarter, at an average price of $371 per share. At the end of the first quarter, the Company had $788 million remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. Driven by improved earnings and a declining equity base, return on capital reached 33.0% at quarter end.
The Company's inventory increased 6.8% over the same period last year, driven primarily by new store openings. Inventory per store was $537 thousand versus $524 thousand last year and $525 thousand last quarter. Net inventory, defined as merchandise inventories less accounts payable, was flat, relative to last year, on a per store basis, at negative $64 thousand per store.
Additionally, AutoZone announces this morning that it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase the assets and select liabilities of AutoAnything, an online retailer of specialized automotive products. 
"I would like to thank our entire organization for the solid performance delivered this past quarter. We are pleased to report our twenty-fifth consecutive quarter of double digit earnings per share growth. While this past quarter's sales results were lower than planned, they were not surprising to us. Regional sales discrepancies continued to challenge our results, however we began to see improvements in our more challenged regions late in the quarter. We believe the initiatives we have in place are correct for delivering solid financial results, as we remain excited about our opportunities for the remainder of fiscal 2013. Our financial success will continue to be driven by the tremendous contributions of our more than 70,000 dedicated AutoZoners, and it is their dedication that will continue to differentiate us from our competition. Also, we look forward to formally welcoming the AutoAnything team to AutoZone. The company's culture and leadership is an outstanding fit with our Company as we look forward to growing our e-Commerce initiatives for many years to come. I want to reiterate we remain committed to delivering exceptional, 'WOW!' customer service while growing through our Retail, Commercial, International, ALLDATA, and e-Commerce initiatives. We will maintain our disciplined approach to growing operating earnings and utilizing our capital effectively," said Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
During the quarter ended November 17, 2012, AutoZone opened 19 new stores, and closed one store in the U.S., opened 4 new stores in Mexico, and opened our first store in Brazil. As of November 17, 2012, the Company had 4,703 stores in 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico in the U.S., 325 stores in Mexico, and one store in Brazil for a total count of 5,029.
AutoZone is the leading retailer, and a leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products.  Many stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and public sector accounts, including select stores in Mexico. AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com AutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.
.
AutoZone will host a conference call this morning, Tuesday, December 4, 2012, beginning at 10:00 a.m. (EST) to discuss its first quarter results. Investors may listen to the conference call live and review supporting slides on the AutoZone corporate website, www.autozoneinc.com by clicking "Investor Relations," "Conference Calls." The call will also be available by dialing (210) 839-8923. A replay of the call and slides will be available on AutoZone's website. In addition, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (203) 369-1211 through Tuesday, December 11, 2012 at 11:59 p.m. (EST).
This release includes certain financial information not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP measures include return on invested capital, adjusted debt, adjusted debt to EBITDAR, and cash flow before share repurchases. The Company believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures provides information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly the Company's comparative year-to-year operating results, but this information should not be considered a substitute for any measures derived in accordance with GAAP. Management targets the Company's capital structure in order to maintain its investment grade credit ratings and manages cash flows available for share repurchase by monitoring cash flows before share repurchases, as shown on the attached tables. The Company believes this is important information for the management of its debt levels and share repurchases. We have included a reconciliation of this additional information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "expect," "estimate," "project," "positioned," "strategy" and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations. Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the "Risk Factors" section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25, 2012, and these Risk Factors should be read carefully. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and events described above and in the "Risk Factors" could materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results.
CONTACT: Financial: Brian Campbell at (901) 495-7005,         brian.campbell@autozone.com         Media: Ray Pohlman at (866) 966-3017,         ray.pohlman@autozone.com


