FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20121113161857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.03. CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
On November 13, 2012, AutoZone, Inc. (the "Company") completed the sale of $300 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.875% Notes due 2023 (the "Notes"). The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate equal to 2.875% per year, payable semi-annually.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of August 8, 2003 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and were offered and sold pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on April 17, 2012, on Form S-3 (File No. 333-180768), as supplemented by a prospectus supplement dated November 1, 2012, filed with the Commission on November 2, 2012. Pursuant to the Indenture, the Company executed an Officers' Certificate dated November 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate") setting forth the terms of the Notes.
The Company will pay interest on the Notes on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning July 15, 2013. The Notes will mature on January 15, 2023. The Notes will be senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and will rank equally with the Company's other senior unsecured liabilities and senior to any future subordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Notes are subject to customary covenants restricting the Company's ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur debt secured by liens, to enter into sale and leaseback transactions or to merge or consolidate with another entity or sell substantially all of its assets to another person. The Indenture provides for customary events of default and further provides that the trustee or the holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding series of Notes may declare such Notes immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of any event of default after expiration of any applicable grace period.
The Company may redeem the Notes at the Company's option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices described in the Officers' Certificate. If a change of control, as defined in the Officers' Certificate, occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, holders of the Notes may require the Company to repurchase the Notes at the prices described in the Officers' Certificate.
The above description of the Officers' Certificate and the Notes is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Officers' Certificate pursuant to the Indenture setting forth the terms of the Notes, and the form of Note, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
A. Pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), adopted at a meeting held on September 27, 2012 (the "Resolutions"), the undersigned, Brian L. Campbell, Vice President and Treasurer of the Company, and William T. Giles, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify that pursuant to the Resolutions and Section 3.2 of the Indenture, dated as of August 8, 2003 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), there is hereby established a series of Securities (as that term is defined in the Indenture), the terms and form of which shall be as follows (capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture):
(a) The title of the series of the Securities shall be "2.875% Senior Notes due 2023" (the "Notes").
(b) The Notes shall be issued at a price of 99.672% of the principal amount thereof.
(c) The aggregate principal amount of the Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture (except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to Sections 3.7, 3.8, 3.11, 4.7 or 10.6 of the Indenture) initially shall be $300,000,000. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, create and issue additional Notes ranking equally and ratably with the Notes and otherwise identical to the Notes in all respects, except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Notes and, in some cases, the first payment of interest following the issue date of such additional Notes and the initial interest accrual date thereof, so that such further Notes shall form a single series with the Notes.
(d) The principal amount of the Notes shall be payable in full on January 15, 2023, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
(e) The Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 2.875% per annum from November 13, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year (each an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing on July 15, 2013 until the principal amount of the Notes has been paid or duly provided for. The January 1 and July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date, shall be a "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date.
(f) The principal of and interest on the Notes shall be payable at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in New York, New York.
(g) The Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company, at any time in whole or from time to time in part. If the Notes are redeemed before October 15, 2022, the redemption price will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date plus the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed; and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on such Notes (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points, as determined in good faith by the Company.
 
If the Notes are redeemed on or after October 15, 2022, the redemption price for the Notes will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed plus 100% of the principal amount of the Notes.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.4 of the Indenture, notice of any redemption of Notes before October 15, 2022 need not set forth the redemption price but only the manner of calculation thereof. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of the amount of the redemption price for any such redemption promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall have no responsibility for such calculation. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the date of redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions of the Notes called for redemption.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that date of redemption.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be used, at the time of selection and under customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such date of redemption, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
"Quotation Agent" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Barclays Capital, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors and a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") selected by SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., and any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company. If any of the foregoing ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company must substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any date of redemption, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such date of redemption.
(h) The Notes will be issued only in registered form in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
(i) The Notes shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities. Such Global Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for individual Securities in definitive form only on the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. The initial Depository for such Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company.
(j) The Notes shall be denominated in Dollars and the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be in Dollars.
(k) The Notes shall be defeasible as provided in Article IX of the Indenture.
(l) The Notes shall not be subject to any mandatory sinking fund.
(m) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described in Section 4.2 of the Indenture and clause (A)(g) of this Officers' Certificate, Holders of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") on the terms set forth in the Notes. In the Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to the date of the consummation of any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company shall be required to mail a notice to the Holders of the Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in such notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of the consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date. The Company must comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Triggering Event provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Triggering Event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflicts.
"Capital Stock" of a corporation means the capital stock of every class whether now or hereafter authorized, regardless of whether such capital stock shall be limited to a fixed sum or percentage with respect to the rights of the holders thereof to participate in dividends and in the distribution of assets upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of such corporation.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person, other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person, other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation,
 
any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect Holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the Holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no Person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (A) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (B) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the continuing directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of a proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc., and its successors.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
"Person" has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Rating Agencies" means (A) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (B) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
 
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies on any day during the period (which period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) commencing 60 days prior to the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Corporation, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified Person that is a corporation as of any date, the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
(n) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall be required, to the extent lawful, to:
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being repurchased.
The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Note, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a Default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
(o) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of any Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person more than 180 days following the Company's or its Subsidiary's acquisition of such Property, with the intention of taking back a lease of such Property (a "Sale and Leaseback Transaction") unless the terms of such sale or transfer have been determined by the Board of Directors to be fair and arm's length and either:
(i) within 12 months after the receipt of the proceeds of the sale or transfer, the Company or any Subsidiary apply an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of the sale or transfer or the fair value of such Property at the time of such sale or transfer to the prepayment or retirement (other than any mandatory prepayment or retirement) of Senior Funded Debt; or
 
(ii) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled, at the effective date of the sale or transfer, to incur debt secured by a Lien on such Property in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to Section 5.8 of the Indenture.
The foregoing restriction in the paragraph above shall not apply to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction (i) for a term of not more than three years including renewals; or (ii) between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries, provided that the lessor is the Company or a wholly owned Subsidiary.
"Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease (as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligations of the lessee under such lease for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the Company's option, be extended).
"Funded Debt" means debt which matures more than one year from the date of creation, or which is extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor so that it may become payable more than one year from such date or which is classified, in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, as long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet for the most recently ended fiscal quarter (or if incurred subsequent to the date of such balance sheet, would have been so classified) of the person for which the determination is being made. Funded Debt does not include (1) obligations created pursuant to leases, (2) any debt or portion thereof maturing by its terms within one year from the time of any computation of the amount of outstanding Funded Debt unless such debt shall be extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor in such manner that it may become payable more than one year from such time, or (3) any debt for which money in the amount necessary for the payment or redemption of such debt is deposited in trust either at or before the maturity date thereof.
"Senior Funded Debt" means all Funded Debt of the Company or its Subsidiaries (except Funded Debt, the payment of which is subordinated to the payment of the Notes).
(p) Clause (xiii) of the definition of "Permitted Liens" in Section 1.1 of the Indenture is hereby replaced and superseded in its entirety to read as follows:
(xiii) Liens existing on November 1, 2012, or any extension, amendments, renewals, refinancings, replacements or other modifications thereto.
(q) Clause (xviii) of the definition of "Permitted Liens" in the Indenture is hereby replaced and superseded in its entirety to read as follows:
(xviii) other Liens on Property of the Company and its Subsidiaries securing debt having an aggregate principal amount (or deemed amount, in the case of Attributable Debt) not to exceed, as of any date of incurrence of such secured debt pursuant to this clause and after giving effect to such incurrence and the application of the proceeds therefrom, the greater of (1) $500 million and (2) 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
(r) Section 7.1(e) of the Indenture is hereby amended by replacing the reference to "$35 million" set forth therein with a reference to "$75 million."
(s) The Notes shall be entitled to the benefit of the covenants in Article V of the Indenture.
(t) The Notes constitute senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment among themselves and with all other existing and future senior, unsecured and unsubordinated debt obligations of the Company.
(u) There shall be no Events of Default other than those provided in Section 7.1 of the Indenture and the failure by the Company to comply with the provisions of clauses A.(m) or (n) hereof.
(v) The Notes shall have additional terms and conditions as set forth in, and shall be substantially in the form of, Annex A attached hereto, with such modifications thereto as may be approved by the authorized officer or officers executing the same.
(w) The Trustee shall be the trustee for or on behalf of the Holders of the Notes.
B. The undersigned hereby approve the sale of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes by the Company to the Underwriters listed in Schedule I to that certain Underwriting Agreement dated November 1, 2012, and in accordance with and pursuant to the terms thereof at a net purchase price to the Company of 99.022% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any from November 13, 2012, and with an initial price to the public of 99.672% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any from November 13, 2012.
The Indenture, as supplemented by this Officers' Certificate, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Officers' Certificate shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
This Officers' Certificate may be executed in one or more counterparts, including, without limitation, facsimile counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, and shall together constitute one and the same Officers' Certificate.
THIS OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto executed this Officers' Certificate as of the 13
th
day of November, 2012.
/s/ William T. Giles                                                                     
Name: William T. Giles
Title:   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Brian L. Campbell                                                                 
Name: Brian L. Campbell
Title:   Vice President and Treasurer
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY. THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Original Issue Date: November 13, 2012
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15
Maturity Date: January 15, 2023
Interest Rate: 2.875%
AUTOZONE, INC., a Nevada corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) (the "Principal Amount") on the Maturity Date shown above, except as provided below, and to pay interest thereon at the rate per annum shown above. (Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.) The Company will pay interest semiannually on the Interest Payment Dates, commencing on July 15, 2013. Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for, from the Original Issue Date shown above.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or the July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on this Note, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the persons who are Securityholders of this Note on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix that record date and payment date. At least ten (10) days before that record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Securityholder a notice that states that record date, the payment date and the amount of interest and any interest thereon to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest and any interest thereon in any other lawful manner.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the "Securities"), of the Series hereinafter specified, all issued under and pursuant to an indenture, dated as of August 8, 2003, together with the Officers' Certificate dated November 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate"), establishing the terms of the Notes (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and Holders of the Securities. The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more Series, which different Series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided. This Note is one of a Series designated as the "2.875% Senior Notes due 2023" of the Company (herein referred to as the "Notes"), initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000). The Company may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the holders of the Notes, create and issue additional Notes ranking equally and ratably with the Notes and otherwise identical in all respects, except for the issue price, the issue date, the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Notes and, in some cases, the first payment of interest following the issue date of such additional Notes and the initial interest accrual date thereof, so that such further Notes shall be consolidated and form a single Series with the Notes.
The Notes constitute senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment among themselves and with all other existing and future senior, unsecured and unsubordinated debt obligations of the Company.
In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Officers' Certificate, the Holders of the Notes may require that the Company repurchase the Notes if a Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred.
The Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, in whole or from time to time in part. If the Notes are redeemed before October 15, 2022, the redemption price will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date plus the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on such Notes being redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points, as determined in good faith by the Company.
If the Notes are redeemed on or after October 15, 2022, the redemption price for the Notes will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed plus 100% of the principal amount of the Notes.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.4 of the Indenture, notice of any redemption of Notes before October 15, 2022 need not set forth the redemption price but only the manner of calculation thereof. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of the amount of the redemption price for any such redemption promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall have no responsibility for such calculation. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the date of redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions of the Notes called for redemption.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such date of redemption.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be used, at the time of selection and under customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such date of redemption, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
"Quotation Agent" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Barclays Capital, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors and a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") selected by SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., and any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company. If any of the foregoing ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company must substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any date of redemption, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day before the date of redemption.
The Notes will not be subject to, or have the benefit of, any sinking fund.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof may be declared, or shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture provides that, subject to certain conditions therein set forth, any such declaration of acceleration and its consequences may be waived by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes to be affected thereby, as provided in the Indenture, to enter into supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes; and the Indenture also contains provisions allowing the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes to waive compliance with any provision of the Indenture or this Note; , , that no such supplemental indenture or amendment or waiver may, without the consent of each Holder of Notes to be affected (a) reduce the amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (b) reduce the rate of, change the method of determination of or extend the time for payment of interest (including default interest) on any Note; (c) reduce the principal or change the Stated Maturity of any Note; (d) make any change in the provisions concerning waivers of Events of Default by Holders or the rights of Holders to recover the principal of or interest on any Note; (e) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration); (f) make the principal of or interest on any Note payable in any currency other than that stated in the Note; (g) make any change in Sections 7.8, 7.13, or 10.3 of the Indenture; or (h) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Note. The Indenture also provides that the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past Default under the Indenture with respect to the Notes and its consequences, except a Default (i) in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note (provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes
provided
however
may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration) or (ii) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Notes affected. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Any such waiver by the Holders of the Notes shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders and owners of this Note and of any Note issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange or substitution hereof.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable by the Holder hereof on the register of the Company, upon due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer at the office of the Registrar, or at the office of any co-registrar duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Company and the Registrar or any such co-registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for an equal principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Notes are issuable only as registered Notes without coupons in denominations equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for new Notes of any authorized denominations of an equal principal amount as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of the Indenture, payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Note represented by a Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof. The Company and the Trustee understand that interest on any such Global Security will be disbursed or credited by the Depository to the persons having beneficial ownership thereof pursuant to a book-entry or other system maintained by the Depository.
Except as provided in the foregoing paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Notes represented by a Global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depository with respect to such Global Security, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
The Holder of this Note shall not have recourse for the payment of principal of or interest on this Note or for any claim based on this Note or the Indenture against any director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company. By acceptance of this Note, the Holder waives and releases all such liability.
THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
All terms used but not defined in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication has been executed by manual signature of the Trustee, this Note shall not be valid.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed manually or in facsimile.
Dated: November 13, 2012
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
Series designated therein, referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.), as Trustee
By:
                                                                                          
                             Authorized Signatory

Exhibit 4.2
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY. THIS NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Original Issue Date: November 13, 2012
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15
Maturity Date: January 15, 2023
Interest Rate: 2.875%
AUTOZONE, INC., a Nevada corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) (the "Principal Amount") on the Maturity Date shown above, except as provided below, and to pay interest thereon at the rate per annum shown above. (Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.) The Company will pay interest semiannually on the Interest Payment Dates, commencing on July 15, 2013. Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for, from the Original Issue Date shown above. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or the July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on this Note, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the persons who are Securityholders of this Note on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix that record date and payment date. At least ten (10) days before that record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Securityholder a notice that states that record date, the payment date and the amount of interest and any interest thereon to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest and any interest thereon in any other lawful manner.
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the "Securities"), of the Series hereinafter specified, all issued under and pursuant to an indenture, dated as of August 8, 2003, together with the Officers' Certificate dated November 13, 2012 (the "Officers' Certificate"), establishing the terms of the Notes (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and Holders of the Securities. The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more Series, which different Series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided. This Note is one of a Series designated as the "2.875% Senior Notes due 2023" of the Company (herein referred to as the "Notes"), initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000). The Company may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the holders of the Notes, create and issue additional Notes ranking equally and ratably with the Notes and otherwise identical in all respects, except for the issue price, the issue date, the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Notes and, in some cases, the first payment of interest following the issue date of such additional Notes and the initial interest accrual date thereof, so that such further Notes shall be consolidated and form a single Series with the Notes.
The Notes constitute senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment among themselves and with all other existing and future senior, unsecured and unsubordinated debt obligations of the Company.
In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Officers' Certificate, the Holders of the Notes may require that the Company repurchase the Notes if a Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred.
The Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, in whole or from time to time in part. If the Notes are redeemed before October 15, 2022, the redemption price will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date plus the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on such Notes being redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points, as determined in good faith by the Company.
If the Notes are redeemed on or after October 15, 2022, the redemption price for the Notes will equal accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed plus 100% of the principal amount of the Notes.
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 4.4 of the Indenture, notice of any redemption of Notes before October 15, 2022 need not set forth the redemption price but only the manner of calculation thereof. The Company shall give the Trustee notice of the amount of the redemption price for any such redemption promptly after the calculation thereof and the Trustee shall have no responsibility for such calculation. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the date of redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions of the Notes called for redemption.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such date of redemption.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be used, at the time of selection and under customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any date of redemption, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such date of redemption, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations.
"Quotation Agent" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Barclays Capital, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and their respective successors and a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer") selected by SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., and any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company. If any of the foregoing ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company must substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any date of redemption, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day before the date of redemption.
The Notes will not be subject to, or have the benefit of, any sinking fund.
In case an Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof may be declared, or shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture provides that, subject to certain conditions therein set forth, any such declaration of acceleration and its consequences may be waived by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes to be affected thereby, as provided in the Indenture, to enter into supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes; and the Indenture also contains provisions allowing the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes to waive compliance with any provision of the Indenture or this Note; , , that no such supplemental indenture or amendment or waiver may, without the consent of each Holder of Notes to be affected (a) reduce the amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver; (b) reduce the rate of, change the method of determination of or extend the time for payment of interest (including default interest) on any Note; (c) reduce the principal or change the Stated Maturity of any Note; (d) make any change in the provisions concerning waivers of Events of Default by Holders or the rights of Holders to recover the principal of or interest on any Note; (e) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration); (f) make the principal of or interest on any Note payable in any currency other than that stated in the Note; (g) make any change in Sections 7.8, 7.13, or 10.3 of the Indenture; or (h) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Note. The Indenture also provides that the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past Default under the Indenture with respect to the Notes and its consequences, except a Default (i) in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Note (provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration) or (ii) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Notes affected.
provided
however
Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Any such waiver by the Holders of the Notes shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders and owners of this Note and of any Note issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange or substitution hereof.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable by the Holder hereof on the register of the Company, upon due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer at the office of the Registrar, or at the office of any co-registrar duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Company and the Registrar or any such co-registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of authorized denominations and for an equal principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Notes are issuable only as registered Notes without coupons in denominations equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for new Notes of any authorized denominations of an equal principal amount as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of the Indenture, payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Note represented by a Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof. The Company and the Trustee understand that interest on any such Global Security will be disbursed or credited by the Depository to the persons having beneficial ownership thereof pursuant to a book-entry or other system maintained by the Depository.
Except as provided in the foregoing paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Notes represented by a Global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depository with respect to such Global Security, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
The Holder of this Note shall not have recourse for the payment of principal of or interest on this Note or for any claim based on this Note or the Indenture against any director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company. By acceptance of this Note, the Holder waives and releases all such liability.
THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
All terms used but not defined in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication has been executed by manual signature of the Trustee, this Note shall not be valid.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed manually or in facsimile.
Dated: November 13, 2012
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
Series designated therein, referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.), as Trustee
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
AutoZone, Inc.
123 South Front Street
Memphis, Tennessee 38103
Re:        AutoZone, Inc. 2.875% Senior Notes due 2023
We have acted as counsel to AutoZone, Inc. (the "") in connection with the issuance of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (the ""), pursuant to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number: 333-180768) (the ""), including a base prospectus, dated April 17, 2012 (the ""), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the final prospectus supplement dated November 1, 2012, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (collectively with the Base Prospectus, the "").
Company
Notes
Registration Statement
Base Prospectus
Commission
Securities Act
Prospectus
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, dated as of August 8, 2003, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the officers' certificate, dated as of November 13, 2012 (the ""), including the form of global note representing the Notes (the "").
Trustee
Indenture
Global Note
In connection with this opinion, we have examined and relied upon such records, documents, certificates and other instruments as in our judgment are necessary or appropriate to form the basis for the opinions hereinafter set forth. In all such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of signatures on original documents and the conformity to such original documents of all copies submitted to us as certified, conformed or photographic copies, and as to certificates of public officials, we have assumed the same to have been properly given and to be accurate. As to matters of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon statements and representations of representatives of the Company and public officials.
We have assumed for purposes of this opinion that (a) each of the Company and the Trustee is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (b) each of the Company and the Trustee has the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver and to perform its obligations under each of the Indenture and the Notes; (c) each of the Company and the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered each of the Indenture and the Notes (except that no such assumption is made with respect to execution and delivery thereof by the Company under the laws of the State of New York); (d) each of the Indenture and the Notes constitutes a legally valid and binding agreement of the Trustee, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms; and (e) the Trustee is in compliance, generally and with respect to acting as Trustee under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations.
To the extent our opinion set forth below relates to the enforceability of the choice of New York law and choice of New York forum provisions of the Indenture and the Securities, our opinion is rendered in reliance upon N.Y. Gen. Oblig. Law 5-1401, 5-1402 (McKinney 2001) and N.Y. C.P.L.R. 327(b) (McKinney 2001) and is subject to the qualification that such enforceability may be limited by public policy considerations of any jurisdiction, other than the courts of the State of New York, in which enforcement of such provisions, or of a judgment upon an agreement containing such provisions, is sought. We have also assumed that the Company has complied with all aspects of applicable laws of jurisdictions other than the State of New York in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Indenture. As to facts material to the opinion expressed herein, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company, public officials and others.
 
bassberry.com
Page 2
 
Our opinion set forth herein is limited to the laws of the State of New York that, in our experience, are applicable to the Notes and, to the extent that judicial or regulatory orders or decrees or consents, approvals, licenses, authorizations, validations, filings, recordings or registrations with governmental authorities are relevant, to those required under such laws (all of the foregoing being referred to as ""). We do not express any opinion with respect to the law of any jurisdiction other than the Covered Law or as to the effect of any such non-covered law on the opinion herein stated or the securities or "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction. The opinion expressed in this opinion letter is strictly limited to the matters stated in this opinion letter and no other opinions are to be implied.
Covered Law
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, and assuming that (i) the Indenture and the Notes have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the Company and the Trustee, (ii) the final terms of the Notes have been duly established and approved by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company and (iii) the Notes have been duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the purchasers thereof, we are of the opinion that the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with the terms thereof.
The opinion rendered in the above paragraph is subject to the following exceptions, limitations and qualifications: (i) the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors; (ii) the effect of general principles of equity (including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief and other equitable remedies), regardless of whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law; (iii) the unenforceability under certain circumstances under law or court decisions of provisions providing for the indemnification of or contribution to a party with respect to a liability where such indemnification or contribution is contrary to public policy; and (iv) the unenforceability of any provision requiring the payment of attorneys' fees, where such payment is contrary to law or public policy. We express no opinion (i) concerning the enforceability of any waiver of rights or defenses with respect to stay, extension or usury laws, (ii) with respect to whether acceleration of the Notes may affect the collectibility of any portion of the stated principal amount thereof which might be determined to constitute unearned interest thereon or (iii) as to the enforceability of any provision to the extent it requires any party to indemnify any other person against loss in obtaining the currency due following a court judgment rendered in another currency. The opinions rendered in the above paragraph do not include opinions with respect to compliance with laws relating to permissible rates of interest.
In rendering the opinion set forth above, we have assumed that the execution and delivery by the Company of the Indenture and the Notes and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder do not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a default under any agreement or instrument to which the Company or its properties is subject. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Registration Statement through a Current Report on Form 8-K. We also hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof unless otherwise expressly stated, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein or of any subsequent changes in applicable law.
Yours very truly,
/s/ Bass, Berry & Sims PLC

Exhibit 5.2
 
November 13, 2012
AutoZone, Inc.
123 South Front Street
Memphis, Tennessee 38103
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special Nevada counsel to AutoZone, Inc., a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-180768) (the "Registration Statement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), including a base prospectus, dated April 17, 2012 (the "Base Prospectus"), as supplemented by a prospectus supplement, dated November 1, 2012, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 430B and Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (the "Prospectus Supplement" and, together with the Base Prospectus, the "Prospectus"), of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (the "Notes"), issued pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated as of August 8, 2003, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., successor in interest to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (as supplemented by an officers' certificate dated as of November 13, 2012, the "Indenture").
For purposes of rendering this opinion letter, we have made such legal and factual examinations and inquiries, including an examination of originals or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction as being true copies of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Indenture, the global note representing the Notes (the "Global Note"), the articles of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended to date, of the Company, the resolutions of the board of directors of the Company with respect to the Notes, and such other documents, agreements, instruments and corporate records and proceedings, as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for purposes of this opinion letter. We have also obtained from officers and other representatives of the Company and from public officials, and have relied upon, such certificates, representations and assurances as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purpose of rendering the opinions set forth herein.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in rendering this opinion letter, we have, with your permission, assumed without independent verification that: (i) the statements of fact and all representations and warranties set forth in the documents we have examined are true and correct as to factual matters, in each case as of the date or dates of such documents and as of the date hereof; (ii) each natural person executing a document has sufficient legal capacity to do so; (iii) all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic, the signatures on all documents that we have examined are genuine, and all documents submitted to us as certified, conformed, photostatic, facsimile or electronic copies conform to the original document; and (iv) all corporate records made available to us by the Company, and all public records we have reviewed, are accurate and complete.
We are qualified to practice law in the State of Nevada. The opinions set forth herein are expressly limited to the general corporate laws of the State of Nevada In effect on the date hereof, and
100 North City Parkway, Suite 1600 Las Vegas, NV 89106-4614         702.382.2101
|
tel
Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP bhfs.com         702.382.8135
|
fax
AutoZone, Inc.
November 13, 2012
Page 2
we do not purport to be experts on, or to express any opinion with respect to the applicability or effect of, the laws of any other jurisdiction. We express no opinion herein concerning, and we assume no responsibility as to laws or judicial decisions related to, or any orders, consents or other authorizations or approvals as may be required by, any federal laws, rules or regulations, including, without limitation, any federal securities laws, rules or regulations, or any state securities or "blue sky" laws, rules or regulations.
Based on the foregoing, and in reliance thereon, and having regard to legal considerations and other information that we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Nevada.
2. The Indenture and the Global Note have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
3. The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Indenture.
In delivering this opinion letter to you, we disclaim any obligation to update or supplement the opinions set forth herein or to apprise you of any changes in any laws or facts after the later of the date hereof and the filing date of the Prospectus Supplement. No opinion is offered or implied as to any matter, and no inference may be drawn, beyond the strict scope of the specific issues expressly addressed by the opinions set forth herein.
We hereby consent to your filing this opinion letter as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the reference to our firm in the Prospectus under the heading "Legal Matters". In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. Subject to all of the qualifications, limitations, exceptions, restrictions and assumptions set forth herein, Bass, Berry & Sims PLC may rely on this opinion letter as if it were an addressee hereof on this date for the sole purpose of rendering its opinion letter to the Company relating to the registration of the Notes, as filed with the Commission.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP


