FILE:AZO/AZO-8K-20121018071525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 17, 2012, the Board of Directors of AutoZone, Inc. ("the Company" or "AutoZone") elected Enderson Guimaraes as a director of the Company.
Mr. Guimaraes is Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Europe, a role he assumed in September 2012, and is responsible for PepsiCo's food and beverage businesses in Continental Europe as well as the UK and sub-Sahara Africa. He joined PepsiCo in October 2011 as president, Global Operations and was responsible for strategic sourcing management, global operations, business and information solutions and global productivity. He also previously served as president of PepsiCo's Global Nutrition Group. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Mr. Guimaraes served as executive vice president of Electrolux and chief executive officer of its major appliances business for Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Before this, he spent ten years at Philips Electronics, first as a regional marketing executive in Latin America and ultimately as senior vice president and head of global marketing management and general manager of the VidiWall LED display business. Mr. Guimaraes also served as chief executive officer of Philips' Lifestyle Incubator group, an innovation engine which created new businesses and developed them over several years.
The Company's Board of Directors has not yet determined on which committees Mr. Guimaraes will serve.
Additionally, the Company announced that William C. Crowley and Robert R. Grusky will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on December 12, 2012, and that the Board of Directors has nominated the remaining eight incumbent directors, including Mr. Guimaraes, for election at the Annual Meeting.
The press release announcing these matters is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated October 18, 2012
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1 Press Release dated October 18, 2012.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Oct. 18, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AutoZone, Inc. (NYSE:AZO) today announced the election of Enderson Guimaraes to the AutoZone Board of Directors. Mr. Guimaraes is Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Europe, a role he assumed in September 2012, and is responsible for PepsiCo's food and beverage businesses in Continental Europe as well as the UK and sub-Sahara Africa. "Enderson's exceptional international operations experience will benefit AutoZone greatly. We are fortunate to have him as a new Board member," said Bill Rhodes, Chairman, President and CEO.
In addition, the Company announced that two of its current board members, William C. Crowley and Robert R. Grusky, are not standing for re-election at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held December 12, 2012. "AutoZone has truly benefited from the talents Bill and Bob have brought to our Board these past several years," said Bill Rhodes.  "Both gentlemen's exceptional efforts as Board members helped to make our Company what it is today. I thank them for their leadership and commitment to our Company, and wish them well in their future endeavors."
The Board of Directors has nominated the remaining eight incumbent directors, including Mr. Guimaraes, for election at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
About AutoZone:
As of August 25, 2012, AutoZone sells auto and light truck parts, chemicals and accessories through 4,685 AutoZone stores in 49 U.S. states plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 321 stores in Mexico.
AutoZone is the leading retailer and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, and non-automotive products.  Many stores also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations, and public sector accounts.  AutoZone also sells the ALLDATA brand diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, non-automotive products and subscriptions to the ALLDATAdiy product through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. AutoZone does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation.  
CONTACT: Media:         Ray Pohlman         866-966-3017         ray.pohlman@autozone.com         Financial:         Brian Campbell         901 495-7005         brian.campbell@autozone.com


