FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20041020161902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
================================================================================ UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED) OCTOBER 14, 2004 OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-9210 95-4035997 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 10889 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90024 (Address of principal executive offices) (ZIP code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (310) 208-8800 ================================================================================ Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 1 - REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement - ---------- ------------------------------------------ On October 14, 2004, the Board of Directors of Occidental Petroleum Corporation ("Occidental" or the "Company") approved the adoption of the Occidental 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "2005 DCP") and the 2005 Deferred Stock Program (the "2005 DSP"). The following summaries of material terms are qualified in their entirety by the full texts of the 2005 DCP and 2005 DSP, copies of which are filed as Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The 2005 DCP permits any employee selected by Company management to participate in the 2005 DCP to elect in the year before compensation is earned to defer up to 75% of such employee's base salary and up to 100% of such employee's bonus. Once the enrollment period ends, all deferral elections become irrevocable for compensation earned during the next calendar year. Deferral elections remain effective for subsequent years unless the employee discontinues or changes his deferral election during a subsequent open enrollment period, terminates employment or obtains a distribution resulting from an unforeseeable emergency. Amounts deferred are credited with interest at a rate equal to the greater of (i) Moody's Long-Term Corporate Bond Index Monthly Average Corporates (for the month of July in the year prior to the year for which the rate is to be established) plus 3%, or (ii) the highest yield on the Company's unsecured debt or preferred stock. The 2005 DCP provides that such interest rate may be reduced to a rate lower than the rate determined pursuant to the formula, but that such rate reduction will not be effective until two years after the date such change is adopted and in no event may the interest rate be less than the highest yield on the Company's unsecured debt or preferred stock. In addition, the Company contributes to a savings plan restoration account an amount equal to the amount the Company's contribution on behalf of the participant to the Occidental Savings Plan was reduced by reason of the reduction of the participant's base salary because of deferrals under the 2005 DCP. A participant's interest in the savings plan restoration account and earnings thereon vests at the same rate and time as would have occurred under the Savings Plan. Deferred amounts, including any savings plan restoration amount, are payable within the first 90 days of the year following retirement in a single lump sum or annual installments over 2 to 20 years, as elected by each participant. The 2005 DCP also provides for distributions as a result of death, disability, termination of employment, or a change in control. Key employees must wait 6 months after termination of employment, other than through death or disability, to receive a distribution. The 2005 DSP provides alternate settlement options for employees holding qualifying restricted stock, performance stock or restricted share unit awards under the Occidental 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan. Deferred settlement of a stock award may be mandatory under the terms of the stock award or may be elected not less than 12 months before any shares or share units under an elective deferral award vest unless a longer period is required by law. Deferrals are recorded in a memorandum account on the books of the Company and participants are not entitled to voting or other stockholder rights for deferred shares, although adjustments are made in cases of changes in the underlying common stock of the Company (such as a stock split, reverse stock split, sale of substantially all of the assets or a reorganization) and a participant has the right to elect payment of dividend equivalents on deferred shares in cash or as additional deferred shares. Deferred shares credited to a participant's account are distributed as an equivalent number of shares, with any fractional share interest settled in cash, within the first 90 days of the year following the participation's termination of employment for any reason. Distributions will be made in the form of a lump sum unless the participant is eligible for 1
retirement; in this case, deferrals may be paid in annual installments over 2 to 20 years, as elected by each participant. Key employees must wait 6 months after termination of employment, other than through death or disability, to receive a distribution. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION (Registrant) DATE: October 20, 2004 S. P. Dominick, Jr. -------------------------------------------------- S. P. Dominick, Jr., Vice President and Controller (Chief Accounting and Duly Authorized Officer)
EXHIBIT INDEX 10.1 Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan. 10.2 Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Stock Plan.

EXHIBIT 10.1 OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (Effective January 1, 2005)
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN (Effective January 1, 2005) ARTICLE I PURPOSE This document sets forth the terms of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") effective January 1, 2005. The purpose of the Plan is to provide a tax-deferred opportunity for key management and highly compensated employees of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation and its Affiliates (as defined below) to accumulate additional retirement income through deferrals of compensation. This Plan is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Internal Revenue Code, and any regulations promulgated thereunder, so that the taxation to Participants or Beneficiaries of any compensation deferred under this Plan is deferred. ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this Plan with the first letter capitalized, they shall have the meanings specified below: Affiliate. "Affiliate" means: (i) any corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Code Section 1563(a), determined without regard to Code Sections 1563(a)(4) and (e)(3)(C), and with the phrase "more than 50%" substituted for the phrase "at least 80%" each place it appears in Code Section 1563(a)) of which Occidental Petroleum Corporation is a component member, or (ii) any entity (whether or not incorporated) that is under common control with Occidental Petroleum Corporation (as defined in Code Section 414(c) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, and with the phrase "more than 50%" substituted for the phrase "at least 80%" each place it appears in the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 414(c)). Alternate Payee. "Alternate Payee" means a former spouse of a Participant who is recognized by a Divorce Order as having a right to receive all, or a portion of, the benefits payable under this Plan with respect to such Participant. Amortization Method. "Amortization Method" means an annual installment method of paying a Participant's benefits under which the Company will pay the Participant an initial payment in an amount equal to (i) plus (ii) divided by (iii), where (i) is the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding such payment, (ii) is the amount of interest that would accrue during the entire payout period on the unpaid balance credited to the Participant's Deferral Accounts immediately following such initial payment if the Declared Rate then in effect remained unchanged and (iii) is the number of years over which
annual installments are to be paid. For each Plan Year after the initial benefit payment is made, the annual benefit payment will be determined under the same equation where (i) is the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding the benefit payment, (ii) is the amount of interest that would accrue during the remaining payout period on the unpaid balance credited to the Participant's Deferral Accounts immediately following such annual payment if the Declared Rate then in effect remained unchanged and (iii) is the number of annual payments remaining. Base Salary. "Base Salary" means the base salary earned by a Participant during pay periods beginning in a Plan Year, excluding Bonus, all severance allowances, forms of incentive compensation, Savings Plan, Retirement Plan or other Company qualified plan contributions or benefits, retainers, insurance premiums or benefits, reimbursements, and all other payments, prior to reduction for any deferrals under this Plan or any other plan of the Company or reductions under the Company's Savings Plan allowed under Section 401(k) of the Code. Beneficiary. "Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated as such in accordance with Article VI. Beneficiary Benefit. "Beneficiary Benefit" means the payment to a Participant's Beneficiary of the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts pursuant to Section 5.2 on account of the Participant's death. Board. "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. Bonus. "Bonus" means the bonus earned by a Participant under a regular annual incentive compensation plan (excluding without limitation a special individual or group bonus, a project bonus, and any other special bonus) during a Plan Year prior to reduction for any deferral under this Plan or any other plan of the Company. Code. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Committee. "Committee" means the administrative committee appointed to administer the Plan pursuant to Article III. Company. "Company" means Occidental Petroleum Corporation, or any successor thereto, and any Affiliates. Company Management. "Company Management" means the Chairman of the Board, President or any Executive Vice President of Occidental Petroleum Corporation. Compensation. "Compensation" means Base Salary and/or Bonus. DCP Deferral Account. "DCP Deferral Account" means the account maintained on the books of account of the Company for each Participant pursuant to Article IV. DCP Deferral Amount. "DCP Deferral Amount" means an amount of a Participant's Base Salary and/or Bonus that is deferred under the Plan. 2
Declared Rate. "Declared Rate" with respect to any Plan Year means the rate at which interest will be credited on Deferral Accounts for such Plan Year. The Declared Rate for each Plan Year shall be equal to the greater of: (i) (A) plus (B) where (A) is the Moody's Long-Term Corporate Bond Index Monthly Average Corporates as published by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (or successor thereto) for the month of July in the year prior to the Plan Year in question, and (B) is 3% ("Moodys Plus Three"), or (ii) the highest yield on any unsecured debt or preferred stock of the Company that was outstanding on the last day of July in the year prior to the Plan Year in question. The Declared Rate will be announced on or before January 1 of the applicable Plan Year. Deferral Account(s). "Deferral Account(s)" means a Participant's DCP Deferral Account and/or Savings Plan Restoration Account (if any) maintained on the books of account of the Company for each Participant pursuant to Article IV. Deferral Election Form. "Deferral Election Form" means a paper or electronic election form provided by the Committee on which an Eligible Employee may elect to defer Base Salary and/or Bonus in accordance with Article IV. Disability. "Disability" means a condition under which a Participant either (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits and has received such payments for a period of at least 6 months under the Company's disability plan. Disability Benefit. "Disability Benefit" means the payment to a Participant of the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 on account of the Participant's termination of employment due to a Disability. Distribution Election Form. "Distribution Election Form" means a paper or electronic election form provided by the Committee on which a Participant may elect the form of payment of his Retirement Benefits and/or the form of payment of Beneficiary Benefits to his Beneficiary in accordance with Article V. Divorce Order. "Divorce Order" means any judgment, decree, or order (including judicial approval of a property settlement agreement) that relates to the settlement of marital property rights between a Participant and his former spouse pursuant to state domestic relations law (including, without limitation and if applicable, community property law). Eligible Employee. "Eligible Employee" means each key management or other highly compensated employee of the Company who is selected by Company Management to participate in the Plan. Emergency Benefit. "Emergency Benefit" means the payment to a Participant of part or all of his Deferral Accounts in the event that the Participant has an Unforeseeable Emergency pursuant to Section 5.3. 3
Fractional Method. "Fractional Method" means an installment method of paying a Participant's Retirement Benefit under which the Company will determine the amount of each annual installment by dividing the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding the payment date by the number of annual installments remaining to be paid. Key Employee. "Key Employee" means an employee of the Company who is a "key employee" as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code. Participant. "Participant" means (i) an Eligible Employee who has filed a completed and fully executed Deferral Election Form with the Committee and is participating in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article IV or (ii) any person who has a Deferral Account by reason of his prior status as an Eligible Employee. Under no circumstances shall "Participant" mean any Alternate Payee. Plan Year. "Plan Year" means the calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31. Qualified Divorce Order. "Qualified Divorce Order" means a Divorce Order that (a) creates or recognizes the existence of an Alternate Payee's right to, or assigns to an Alternate Payee the right to, receive all or a portion of the benefits payable to a Participant under this Plan; (b) clearly specifies (i) the name and the last known mailing address of the Participant and the name and mailing address of the Alternate Payee covered by the order, (ii) the amount or percentage of the Participant's benefits to be paid by this Plan to the Alternate Payee, or the manner in which such amount or percentage is to be determined, (iii) the number of payments or period to which such order applies, and (iv) that it applies to this Plan; and (c) does not (i) require this Plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option, not otherwise provided under the Plan, (ii) require this Plan to provide increased benefits, (iii) require the payment of benefits to an Alternate Payee that are required to be paid to another Alternate Payee under another Divorce Order previously determined to be a Qualified Divorce Order, or (iv) require the payment of benefits under this Plan at a time or in a manner that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder or that would otherwise jeopardize the deferred taxation treatment of any amounts deferred under this Plan. Retirement. "Retirement" means: (i) the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death after the Participant attains age 65, (ii) the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death after the Participant attains age 55 and completes five (5) Years of Service or (iii) the Participant's attainment of age 55 following the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death prior to attainment of age 55 if the Participant qualifies for retiree medical coverage under the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Medical Plan on the date of the Participant's termination of employment. Retirement Benefit. "Retirement Benefit" means the payment to a Participant of the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 following Retirement. 4
Retirement Plan. "Retirement Plan" means the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. Savings Plan. "Savings Plan" means the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Savings Plan, as amended from time to time. Savings Plan Restoration Account. "Savings Plan Restoration Account" means the account maintained on the books of account of the Company to reflect Savings Plan Restoration Contributions made by the Company pursuant to Section 4.5. Savings Plan Restoration Contribution. "Savings Plan Restoration Contribution" means the amount credited to a Participant's Savings Plan Restoration Account pursuant to Section 4.5. Termination Benefit. "Termination Benefit" means the payment to a Participant of the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts pursuant to Section 5.1 on account of the Participant's termination of employment other than due to Retirement, Disability or death. Termination Event. "Termination Event" means any of the following: (a) Approval by the stockholders of the Company (or, if no stockholder approval is required, by the Board) of the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, other than in the context of a transaction that does not constitute a Termination Event under clause (b) below; (b) Consummation of a merger, consolidation, or other reorganization, with or into, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets as an entirety to, one or more entities that are not subsidiaries or other affiliates of the Company (a "Business Combination"), unless (i) as a result of the Business Combination, more than 50% of the outstanding voting power of the surviving or resulting entity or a parent thereof (the "Successor Entity") immediately after the Business Combination is, or will be, owned, directly or indirectly, by holders of the Company's voting securities immediately before the Business Combination; (ii) no "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time (the "Exchange Act")), excluding the Successor Entity or any employee benefit plan of the Company and any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under a Company employee benefit plan or any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1(b)(i) of the Exchange Act (an "Excluded Person"), beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the outstanding shares or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Successor Entity, after giving effect to the Business Combination, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and (iii) at least 50% of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination were members of the Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board approving the Business Combination; (c) Any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any Excluded Person) is or becomes the beneficial 5
owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities, other than as a result of (i) an acquisition directly from the Company; (ii) an acquisition by the Company; or (iii) an acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or a Successor Entity; or (d) During any period not longer than two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board cease to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election, or the nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, of each new Board member was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Board members then still in office who were Board members at the beginning of such period (including for these purposes, new members whose election or nomination was so approved), but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board. (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Termination Event shall not occur if, prior to the Termination Event, the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board deems such an event to not be a Termination Event for the purposes of this Plan. (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any event or occurrence described in subsections (a) through (d) does not constitute "a change in the ownership or effective control" as defined under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code, or any regulations promulgated thereunder, such event or occurrence shall not constitute a Termination Event. Unforeseeable Emergency. "Unforeseeable Emergency" means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. Years of Service. "Years of Service" means the number of full years credited to a Participant under the Retirement Plan for vesting purposes. ARTICLE III ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN A Committee shall be appointed by the Board to administer the Plan and establish, adopt, or revise such rules and regulations as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and to interpret the provisions of the Plan, and, except as otherwise indicated herein, any such interpretations shall be conclusive and binding. All decisions of the Committee shall be by vote of at least two of the Committee members and 6
shall be final. The Committee may appoint any agent and delegate to such agent such powers and duties in connection with the administration of the Plan as the Committee may from time to time prescribe. Members of the Committee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan while serving as members of the Committee, but a member of the Committee shall not vote or act upon any matter which relates solely to such member's interest in the Plan as a Participant. ARTICLE IV PARTICIPATION 4.1 Election to Participate. An Eligible Employee may elect to participate in the Plan and elect to defer annual Base Salary and/or Bonus under the Plan by filing with the Committee a completed and fully executed Deferral Election Form prior to the beginning of the Plan Year during which the Eligible Employee performs the services for which such Base Salary and Bonus are to be earned, or at such other time as the Committee may permit in accordance with the regulations promulgated under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code. In the case of the first Plan Year in which an employee becomes an Eligible Employee, such election may be made with respect to services to be performed subsequent to the election if such election is filed with the Committee within 30 days after the date the employee becomes an Eligible Employee. Deferral Election Forms must be filed in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Deferral Election Forms. Various deferral options will be made available to Eligible Employees under the Plan, subject to such limitations and conditions as the Committee may impose from time to time, in its complete and sole discretion. A Deferral Election Form filed for a Plan Year shall be effective for Base Salary and/or Bonus to be earned during that Plan Year and shall remain in effect for that Plan Year and subsequent Plan Years, notwithstanding any change in the Participant's Base Salary or Bonus, until changed or terminated in accordance with the terms of this Section 4.1; provided, however, that such election shall terminate if the Participant ceases to be an Eligible Employee. Subject to the minimum deferral requirements and maximum deferral limitations set forth below, a Participant may increase, decrease or terminate his deferral election effective for Compensation to be earned for services to be performed during any Plan Year by filing a new Deferral Election Form with the Committee prior to January 1 of such Plan Year. Each Deferral Election Form will designate the DCP Deferral Amounts as a fixed dollar amount or fixed percentage (in increments of 1%) of Base Salary and/or (i) a fixed dollar amount or a fixed percentage of Bonus, or (ii) 100% of any Bonus exceeding a specified dollar amount, as elected by the Participant. Deferrals of Base Salary will normally be deducted ratably during the Plan Year. In its sole discretion, the Committee may also permit amounts that an Eligible Employee has previously elected to defer under other plans or agreements with the Company to be transferred to this Plan and credited to his Deferral Accounts that are maintained hereunder. (A) Minimum Deferral. For each Plan Year, the minimum amount of Base Salary that a Participant may elect to defer is $5,000, if expressed as a dollar amount, or 5% of Base Salary, if expressed as a percentage, and the minimum amount of 7
Bonus that a Participant may elect to defer is any of the following: (I) $5,000, (II) 5% of Bonus, or (III) 100% of that portion of any Bonus that exceeds a dollar amount specified by the Participant on his Deferral Election Form. (B) Maximum Deferral. For each Plan Year, the maximum amount of Base Salary that a Participant may elect to defer is 75% of Base Salary, and the maximum amount of Bonus that a Participant may elect to defer is 100% of Bonus. 4.2 DCP Deferral Accounts. The Committee shall establish and maintain a separate DCP Deferral Account for each Participant. A DCP Deferral Amount shall be credited by the Company to the Participant's DCP Deferral Account as of the date that the Participant's Base Salary or Bonus would otherwise have been paid. Such DCP Deferral Account shall be debited by the amount of any payments made by the Company to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary therefrom as of the date of payment. 4.3 Interest. Each Deferral Account of a Participant shall be deemed to bear interest on the monthly balance of such Deferral Account at the Declared Rate for each Plan Year, compounded monthly. Interest will be credited to each Deferral Account on a monthly basis on the last day of each month as long as any amount remains credited to such Deferral Account. Amounts of deferred Compensation that are credited to a Deferral Account and amounts of Savings Plan Restoration Contributions that are credited to a Savings Plan Restoration Account prior to the end of a calendar month shall accrue interest from the date of crediting, computed on the basis of a 30-day month based on days elapsed from date of crediting to the end of the month. 4.4 Valuation of Deferral Accounts. The value of a Deferral Account as of any date shall equal the amounts previously credited to such Deferral Account less any payments debited to such Deferral Account plus the interest deemed to be earned on such Deferral Account in accordance with Section 4.3 through the end of the preceding month. 4.5 Savings Plan Restoration Contribution. For each Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Savings Plan Restoration Account of any Participant, an amount equal to the amount by which the contribution that would otherwise have been made by the Company on behalf of the Participant to the Savings Plan for such Plan Year is reduced by reason of the reduction in the Participant's Base Salary for such Plan Year because of deferrals under this Plan. The Savings Plan Restoration Contribution shall be credited to the Savings Plan Restoration Account of each Participant for each Plan Year at the same time as the Company contribution for such Plan Year is made to the Savings Plan. A Participant's interest in any credit to his Savings Plan Restoration Account and earnings thereon shall vest at the same rate and at the same time as would have been the case had such contribution been made to the Savings Plan. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if, upon a Participant's termination of employment, the Participant has not or does not become 100% vested in his Savings Plan Restoration Account, the unvested portion of his Savings Plan Restoration Account shall be forfeited prior to the determination of the amount of any benefits under Sections 5.1, 5.4, or 5.5. 4.6 Statement of Deferral Accounts. The Committee shall submit to each Participant, within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement in such form as the Committee deems desirable, setting forth the Participant's Deferral Account(s). 8
ARTICLE V BENEFITS 5.1 Termination of Employment for a Reason Other Than Death. (a) Form and Time of Benefit. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.1, and subject to Sections 5.1(e), upon a Participant's termination of employment for a reason other than death (including Retirement and Disability), the Company shall pay to the Participant in a single lump sum within the first 90 days of the calendar year following the Participant's termination of employment an amount equal to the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding payment (after reduction for any forfeitures as set forth in Section 4.5). Any Retirement or Termination Benefits paid in annual installments pursuant to Section 5.1(b) or 5.1(c) shall be paid within the first 90 days of each calendar year, beginning with the year following the Participant's Retirement or other termination of employment and shall be determined based on the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the last day of the month preceding payment. (b) Retirement. On a Distribution Election Form filed simultaneously with and in the same manner as the first Deferral Election Form that a Participant is required to file in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4.1 hereof, a Participant (i) may elect to have the Retirement Benefit, which may consist solely of the Participant's Savings Plan Restoration Account, paid to him in a lump sum, annual payments for any other number of years between two (2) and 20 years or, if available as an option on the Distribution Election Form provided to the Participant, in a combination of an initial lump sum payment followed by annual installments over the next one (1) to 20 years, and (ii) may elect to have the amount of each annual installment determined under either the Amortization Method or the Fractional Method. If a Participant fails to elect either the Amortization Method or the Fractional Method, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected the Fractional Method. Elections made or deemed to be made under this Section 5.1(b) may not be changed unless and until the Plan is amended to provide for changes that comply with the requirements of Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code. (c) Termination Prior to Retirement. If a Participant's employment with the Company terminates for any reason other than Retirement, Disability or death, then, subject to Sections 5.1(e), the Participant shall receive a Termination Benefit in a lump sum as provided in Section 5.1(a); provided, however, at the sole discretion of the Committee, no lump sum shall be payable and instead, the Company shall pay to the Participant an annual amount for a period not to exceed three (3) years, determined using the Fractional Method. (d) Disability Benefit. If a Participant's employment with the Company terminates prior to Retirement due to a Disability, then the Participant shall receive a Disability Benefit in a lump sum within the first 90 days of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 55 in an amount equal to the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding payment. (e) Key Employees. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant who is a Key Employee is entitled to a distribution from the Plan upon or 9
by virtue of such Participant's termination of employment for a reason other than death or Disability, such Participant shall not receive any distribution from the Plan until at least six months after the date of such Participant's termination of employment. 5.2 Beneficiary Benefits. (a) If a Participant dies while employed by the Company, or after termination of employment with the Company but before payment of, or commencement of installment payments of, his benefits under the Plan, then the Company will pay to the Participant's Beneficiary in a single lump sum a Beneficiary Benefit that is an amount equal to the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts. (b) If a Participant dies after the commencement of payment of his Retirement Benefit, then the remaining installments (if any) of the Retirement Benefit shall be payable to his Beneficiary in the same amounts and at the same times as such installment would have been paid to the Participant if he were living. (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.2, a Participant may elect, on a Distribution Election Form filed simultaneously with and in the same manner as the first Deferral Election Form that the Participant is required to file in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 4.1 hereof, that, if he dies prior to the commencement of his Retirement Benefits, then the payment to his Beneficiary shall be made in any form and calculated in any other manner described in Section 5.1(b). Any election described in the preceding sentence may not be changed unless and until the Plan is amended to provide for changes that comply with the requirements of Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code. (d) The payment or payments to a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant under this Section 5.2 shall be made or commence during the first 90 days of the calendar year following the year in which the Participant's death occurred, and the amount of such payment shall be equal to, or determined based on, the value of the Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the month preceding payment. (e) In the event that the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant dies prior to the completion of payments under this Plan to that Beneficiary, all remaining payments to that Beneficiary shall be paid in a lump sum to that Beneficiary's estate. 5.3 Emergency Benefit. In the event that the Committee, upon written petition of the Participant, determines in its sole discretion that the Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Company shall pay to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such determination, an Emergency Benefit that does not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy such Unforeseeable Emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Participant's assets to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship. No amount may be paid to the Participant under this Section 5.3 from any unvested portion of the Participant's Savings Plan Restoration Account. 10
Whenever a Participant receives a distribution under this Section 5.3, the Participant will be deemed to have revoked all current deferral elections under the Plan effective as of the date of the distribution. The Participant will not be permitted to participate in the next enrollment period under the Plan and will be precluded from electing to make new deferrals under the Plan for a minimum period of one (1) year (or such lesser period as the Committee may permit) following receipt of the distribution. 5.4 Immediate Payment on Termination Event. To the extent allowed under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code or any regulations promulgated thereunder, within 60 days after any Termination Event or such other period as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit, the Committee may direct the Company to pay the balance of the Participant's Deferral Accounts, reduced by any unvested portion of the Participant's Savings Plan Restoration Account, to him immediately in a lump sum as a Termination Benefit pursuant to Section 5.1, irrespective of whether the Participant terminates or continues employment with the Company. 5.5 Small Benefit. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the event that the value of a Participant's Deferral Accounts as of the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant's Retirement or other termination of employment occurs is less than $20,000 (after reduction for any forfeiture pursuant to Section 4.5), such amount (with interest to the end of the month preceding the payment date) shall be paid in a cash lump sum without regard to any contrary elections, unless the Committee determines otherwise; provided, however, that if this provision would cause amounts deferred under this Plan to be included in the income of Participants prior to the date of distribution, this provision shall not apply and distributions to the Participant shall be in accordance his election under this Plan. 5.6 Tax Withholding and Reporting. (a) To the extent required by the law in effect at the time payments are made, the Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder the taxes required to be withheld by Federal, state and local law. (b) The Company shall have the right at its option to (i) require a Participant to pay or provide for payment of the amount of any taxes that the Company may be required to withhold with respect to interest or other amounts that the Company credits to a Participant's Deferral Accounts or (ii) deduct from any amount of salary, bonus or other payment otherwise payable in cash to the Participant the amount of any taxes that the Company may be required to withhold with respect to interest or other amounts that the Company credits to a Participant's Deferral Accounts. (c) The tax withholding and reporting rules described in this subsection shall apply to payments made under the Plan pursuant to a Qualified Divorce Order, shall be subject to any applicable superceding guidance promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service, and shall apply in addition to (not in substitution of) the preceding two subsections. Amounts paid to an Alternate Payee shall be subject to federal income tax withholding and, together with amounts so withheld, shall be reportable to the Alternate Payee. In addition, amounts paid to an Alternate Payee shall be subject to taxation under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") and 11
the Federal Unemployment Tax Act ("FUTA") to the same extent as if such amounts had been paid to the Participant. To the extent that amounts paid to an Alternate Payee are subject to taxation under FICA and/or FUTA, such payments shall be treated as the wages of the Participant, and shall be so reportable, but any amounts required under FICA to be withheld from such payments shall be withheld from the payments to the Alternate Payee. 5.7 Termination of Employment. For the purpose of this Article V, a Participant will be deemed to have terminated employment if the Participant ceases to be an employee of any of the following: (a) the Company; (b) an Affiliate; or (c) any other entity, whether or not incorporated, in which the Company has an ownership interest, and the Committee has designated that the Participant's commencement of employment with such entity upon Participant's ceasing to be an employee of an entity described in (a) or (b) above will not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Plan, provided that such designation shall be made in writing by the Committee and shall be communicated to the Participant prior to his commencement of employment with the entity so designated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for any purpose under this Plan unless such termination of employment constitutes "a separation from service" as defined under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code or any regulations promulgated thereunder. For the purposes of the preceding provisions, a Participant who ceases to be an employee of an entity described in (a), (b) or (c) above shall not be deemed to have terminated employment if such cessation of employment is followed immediately by his commencement of employment with another entity described in (a), (b) or (c) above. 5.8 Re-Employment. If a Participant's employment with the Company is terminated and such Participant is re-employed by the Company prior to the payment of his benefits in a cash lump sum payment or while he is receiving benefits in the form of annual installment payments, the payment of the lump sum amount or the future installments, as the case may be, shall be suspended until he again terminates employment with the Company. Such Participant may elect to again participate in this Plan and to defer additional Base Salary and/or Bonus as provided in Section 4.1. Upon a Participant's subsequent termination of employment, distribution of his benefits under the Plan shall commence or resume in the same form as the benefits were payable at his earlier termination of employment. 5.9 Qualified Divorce Orders. Subject to the policies and procedures established by the Committee under Section 9.3(b) hereof and the provisions of this Plan, benefits may be paid from the balance of a Participant's Deferral Account(s) in accordance with a Qualified Divorce Order; provided, however, that no payment shall be made under a Qualified Divorce Order prior to the earliest date on which a Participant is entitled to a distribution under this Plan, unless 12 otherwise allowed under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code or any regulations promulgated thereunder. ARTICLE VI BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as the Beneficiary to whom payments under this Plan shall be made in the event of the Participant's death prior to complete distribution to the Participant of the benefits due under the Plan. Each Beneficiary designation shall become effective only when filed in writing with the Committee during the Participant's lifetime on a paper form prescribed by the Committee. The filing of a new Beneficiary designation form will cancel any inconsistent Beneficiary designation previously filed. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, any benefits remaining unpaid shall be paid in accordance with the Participant's Beneficiary designation under the Company's Retirement Plan, and if there is no such valid Beneficiary designation, to the Participant's then surviving spouse, or if none, to the Participant's estate, unless directed otherwise by the court that has jurisdiction over the assets belonging to the Participant's probate estate. ARTICLE VII CLAIMS PROCEDURE 7.1 Applications for Benefits. All applications for benefits under the Plan shall be submitted to: Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Attention: Deferred Compensation Plan Committee, 10889 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90024. Applications for benefits must be in writing on the forms prescribed by the Committee and must be signed by the Participant, or in the case of a Beneficiary Benefit, by the Beneficiary or legal representative of the deceased Participant. 7.2 Claims Procedure for Benefits other than Disability Benefits. (a) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after receipt of a claim for benefits (other than Disability benefits), the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any adverse benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a determination on the claim. (b) In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the adverse benefit determination is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for 13
the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why the material or information is necessary; and (iv) a description of the Plan's claim review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 7.4. (c) Within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of notification of the adverse benefit determination, the claimant or his duly authorized representative, upon written application to the Committee, may request that the Committee fully and fairly review the adverse benefit determination. On review of an adverse benefit determination, upon request and free of charge, the claimant shall have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. The claimant shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. The Committee's (or delegate's) review shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted regardless of whether the information was previously considered in the initial adverse benefit determination. (d) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 60 days after receipt of such request for review, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any final benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 60-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a final determination on the request for review. In the case of an adverse final benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse final benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the adverse final benefit determination is based; (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits; and (iv) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 7.4. 7.3 Claims Procedure for Disability Benefits. (a) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 45 days after receipt of a claim for Disability benefits, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any adverse benefit determination on the claim, unless circumstances beyond the Plan's control require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 30 days from the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 45-day period. The notice shall describe the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a determination on the claim. If, prior to the end of the first 30-day extension period, the Committee or its delegate determines that, due to circumstances beyond the control of the Plan, a 14
decision cannot be rendered within that extension period, the period for making the determination may be extended for an additional 30 days, so long as the Committee or its delegate notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the first 30-day extension period, of the circumstances requiring the extension and the date as of which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a decision. This notice of extension shall specifically describe the standards on which entitlement to a benefit is based, the unresolved issues that prevent a decision on the claim, and the additional information needed to resolve those issues, and that the claimant has at least 45 days within which to provide the specified information. (b) In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the adverse benefit determination is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why the material or information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Plan's claim review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 7.4; (v) if an internal rule, guideline, protocol or similar criterion ("internal standard") was relied upon in making the determination, a copy of the internal standard or a statement that the internal standard was relied upon and that a copy of the internal standard shall be provided to the claimant free of charge upon request; and (vi) if the determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination or a statement that such explanation shall be provided free of charge upon request. (c) Within 180 days after receipt by the claimant of notification of the adverse benefit determination, the claimant or his duly authorized representative, upon written application to the Committee, may request that the Committee fully and fairly review the adverse benefit determination. On review of an adverse benefit determination, upon request and free of charge, the claimant shall have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. The claimant shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. The Committee's (or delegate's) review: (i) shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted regardless of whether the information was previously considered in the initial adverse benefit determination; (ii) shall not afford deference to the initial adverse benefit determination; (iii) shall be conducted by an appropriate named fiduciary of the Plan who is neither an individual who made the initial adverse benefit determination nor a subordinate of such individual; (iv) if the adverse benefit determination was based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, shall identify medical and vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the Plan in connection with the initial adverse benefit determination; and (v) shall consult an appropriate health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the relevant field of medicine and who or whose subordinate was not consulted in the initial adverse benefit determination. (d) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 45 days after receipt of such request for review, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any final 15
benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 45 days from the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 45-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a final determination on the request for review. In the case of an adverse final benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse final benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the adverse final benefit determination is based; (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits; (iv) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 7.4; (v) if an internal standard was relied upon in making the determination, a copy of the internal standard or a statement that the internal standard was relied upon and that a copy of the internal standard shall be provided to the claimant free of charge upon request; (vi) if the determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination or a statement that such explanation shall be provided free of charge upon request; and (vii) the following statement: "You and your plan may have other voluntary alternative dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what may be available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State insurance regulatory agency." 7.4 Limitations on Actions. No legal action may be commenced prior to the completion of the benefit claims procedure described herein. In addition, no legal action may be commenced after the later of (a) 180 days after receiving the written response of the Committee to an appeal, or (b) 365 days after an applicant's original application for benefits. ARTICLE VIII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 8.1 Amendment. The Board may amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time for any reason, including but not limited to, tax, accounting or other changes, which may result in termination of the Plan for future deferrals. The Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board may amend the Plan to (i) ensure that this Plan complies with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code for deferral of taxation on compensation deferred hereunder until the time of distribution and (ii) add provisions for changes to deferral elections and elections as to time and manner of distributions and other changes that comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code for the deferral of taxation on deferred compensation until the time of distribution. The Committee appointed pursuant to Article III, in its discretion, may amend the Plan if the Committee determines that such amendment does not significantly increase or decrease Plan benefits or costs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except for any amendment required to preserve the deferral of taxation of amounts deferred under this Plan, no amendment shall: (a) reduce the amounts that have been credited to the Deferral Account(s) of any Participant prior to the date such amendment is adopted, or (b) change the definition of the 16
Declared Rate set forth in Article II to a rate or to a formula that, as of the last day of the month preceding the date such amendment is adopted, produces a rate that is less than the lesser of: (i) Moodys Plus Three (as defined in Article II and calculated as of the last day of the month preceding the date such amendment is adopted), or (ii) the highest yield on any unsecured debt or preferred stock of the Company that was outstanding on the last day of the month immediately preceding the date such amendment is adopted. Any amendment that would either (i) reduce the Declared Rate to a rate or to a formula that, as of the last day of the month preceding the date such amendment is adopted, produces a rate that is less than Moodys Plus Three (as defined in Article II and calculated as of the last day of the month preceding the date such amendment is adopted), or (ii) change the terms of the amendment provisions of this Section 8.1 or the terms of the termination provisions of Section 8.2, shall not be effective prior to the date that is two years after the date such amendment is adopted, unless the amendment is required by a change in the tax or other applicable laws or accounting rules, or the amendment is required in order to preclude any amounts deferred under this Plan from being included in the income of Participants prior to a date of distribution as specified under this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following a Termination Event, no amendment shall: (a) reduce the amounts that have been credited to the Deferral Account(s) of any Participant prior to the date such amendment is adopted, (b) change the definition of the Declared Rate set forth in Article II to a rate or to a formula that, as of the last day of the month preceding the date of the Termination Event, produces a rate that is less than Moodys Plus Three (as defined in Article II and calculated as of the last day of the month preceding the date of the Termination Event), or (c) change the terms of the amendment provisions of this Section 8.1 or the terms of the termination provisions of Section 8.2. 8.2 Termination. (a) Company's Right to Terminate. The Board may terminate the Plan at any time, if in the Board's judgment, the continuance of the Plan would not be in the Company's best interest due to tax, accounting or other effects thereof, or potential payouts thereunder, or other reasons, provided that any termination of the Plan shall not be effective prior to the date that is two years after the date the Board adopts a resolution to terminate the Plan, unless (i) the termination of the Plan is required by a change in the tax or other applicable laws or accounting rules, or (ii) the Participants have become taxable on the amounts deferred under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following a Termination Event, the Plan may not be terminated prior to the date that is three years after the date the Termination Event occurs, or, if earlier, the date on which amounts deferred under the Plan have become taxable to Participants. In the event the Board adopts a resolution terminating the Plan, the Board or the Committee shall determine the date as of which all deferral elections shall cease to apply so that no further Base Salary or Bonus shall be deferred under the Plan. (b) Payments Upon Termination. Upon any termination of the Plan under this Section 8.2, the Board or Committee shall determine the date or dates of Plan distributions to the Participants, which date or dates shall not be later than the date or dates on which the Participants or their Beneficiaries would otherwise receive benefits hereunder; provided, however, that if the foregoing provision would cause the amounts deferred under this Plan to be included in the income of Participants prior to the date of distribution, such provision shall not apply and distributions to the Participants or their Beneficiaries shall be made on the dates on which the 17
Participants or their Beneficiaries would receive benefits hereunder without regard to the termination of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if amounts deferred under the Plan have become taxable to Participants as of the date of the Plan termination, distributions shall be made as soon as practicable following the termination of the Plan. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS 9.1 Unsecured General Creditor. The rights of a Participant, Beneficiary, or their heirs, successors, and assigns, as relates to any Company promises hereunder, shall not be secured by any specific assets of the Company, nor shall any assets of the Company be designated as attributable or allocated to the satisfaction of such promises. 9.2 Trust Fund. The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan. At its discretion, the Company may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Board or Committee may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the Company. 9.3 Nonassignability. (a) Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, or interest therein which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the right to benefits payable with respect to a Participant pursuant to a Qualified Divorce Order may be created, assigned, or recognized. The Committee shall establish appropriate policies and procedures to determine whether a Divorce Order presented to the Committee constitutes a Qualified Divorce Order under this Plan, and to administer distributions pursuant to the terms of Qualified Divorce Orders. In the event that a Qualified Divorce Order exists with respect to benefits payable under the Plan, such benefits otherwise payable to the Participant specified in the Qualified Divorce Order shall be payable to the Alternate Payee specified in such Qualified Divorce Order. 9.4 Release from Liability to Participant. A Participant's right to receive benefits under the Plan shall be reduced to the extent that any portion of a Participant's Deferral Account(s) has been paid or set side for payment to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a Qualified Divorce Order or to the extent that the Company or the Plan is otherwise subject to a binding judgment, decree, or order for the attachment, garnishment or execution of any portion of the Participant's Deferral Account(s) 18
or of any distributions therefrom. The Participant shall be deemed to have released the Company and the Plan from any claim with respect to such amounts in any case in which (a) the Company, the Plan, or any Plan representative has been served with legal process or otherwise joined in a proceeding relating to such amounts, and (b) the Participant fails to obtain an order of the court in the proceeding relieving the Company and the Plan from the obligation to comply with the judgment, decree or order. 9.5 Employment Not Guaranteed. Nothing contained in this Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as a contract of employment or as giving any Participant any right to be retained in employment with the Company. Accordingly, subject to the terms of any written employment agreement to the contrary, the Company shall have the right to terminate or change the terms of employment of a Participant at any time and for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause. 9.6 Gender, Singular & Plural. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine or feminine as the identity of the person or persons may require. As the context may require, the singular may be read as the plural and the plural as the singular. 9.7 Captions. The captions of the articles, sections, and paragraphs of the Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions. 9.8 Validity. In the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this Plan. 9.9 Notice. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the principal office of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed given as to the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. 9.10 Applicable Law. The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code, and any regulations promulgated thereunder, and the laws of the State of California to the extent such laws are not preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this document this ___ day of _______________, 2004. OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION By --------------------------------------------- Richard W. Hallock Executive Vice-President, Human Resources 20

EXHIBIT 10.2 OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 DEFERRED STOCK PROGRAM
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION DEFERRED STOCK PROGRAM TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE 2005 DEFERRED STOCK PROGRAM....................................................................... 1 ARTICLE I PURPOSES AND AUTHORIZED SHARES.......................................................... 2 1.1 Purposes..................................................................................... 2 1.2 Shares Available............................................................................. 2 1.3 Relationship to Plans........................................................................ 2 ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS............................................................................. 3 ARTICLE III DEFERRAL OF STOCK AWARDS................................................................ 9 3.1 Elective Deferral Awards..................................................................... 9 3.2 Mandatory Deferral Awards.................................................................... 9 ARTICLE IV DEFERRED SHARE ACCOUNTS................................................................. 10 4.1 Crediting of Deferred Shares................................................................. 10 4.2 Dividend Equivalents......................................................................... 10 4.3 Vesting...................................................................................... 11 4.4 Distribution of Benefits..................................................................... 11 4.5 Adjustments in Case of Changes in Common Stock............................................... 14 4.6 Company's Right to Withhold.................................................................. 14 4.7 Termination of Employment.................................................................... 14 ARTICLE V ADMINISTRATION.......................................................................... 16 5.1 The Administrator............................................................................ 16 5.2 Committee Action............................................................................. 16 5.3 Rights And Duties............................................................................ 16 5.4 Indemnity and Liability...................................................................... 17 ARTICLE VI CLAIMS PROCEDURE........................................................................ 18 6.1 Applications for Benefits.................................................................... 18 6.2 Claims Procedures for Benefits other than Disability Benefits................................ 18 6.3 Claims Procedures for Disability Benefits.................................................... 19 6.4 Limitations on Actions....................................................................... 21 ARTICLE VII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.................................................... 22 7.1 Amendment.................................................................................... 22
-i-
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 DEFERRED STOCK PROGRAM TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
PAGE 7.2 Term......................................................................................... 22 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS........................................................................... 23 8.1 Limitation on Participant's Rights........................................................... 23 8.2 Beneficiary Designation...................................................................... 23 8.3 Payments to Minors or Persons Under Incapacity............................................... 23 8.4 Receipt and Release.......................................................................... 24 8.5 Deferred Shares and Other Benefits Not Assignable; Obligations Binding Upon Successors....... 24 8.6 Employment Taxes............................................................................. 24 8.7 Governing Law; Severability.................................................................. 24 8.8 Compliance with Laws......................................................................... 25 8.9 Program Construction......................................................................... 25 8.10 Compliance with Tax Laws to Preserve Tax Deferral............................................ 25 8.11 Headings Not Part of Program................................................................. 25
-ii-
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 DEFERRED STOCK PROGRAM This document sets forth the terms of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Stock Program (the "Program"), effective January 1, 2005. This Program is intended to be an unfunded program maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as described in Section 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. This Program is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Internal Revenue Code, and any regulations promulgated thereunder, so that the taxation to Participants or Beneficiaries of any compensation deferred under this Program is deferred.
ARTICLE I PURPOSES AND AUTHORIZED SHARES 1.1 Purposes. The purposes of the Program are to promote the ownership and retention of shares of common stock of Occidental Petroleum Corporation by its executives and to allow executives to accumulate additional retirement income through deferrals of receipt of common stock of Occidental Petroleum Corporation under its 2001 Plan. 1.2 Shares Available. The number of Shares that may be issued under the 2001 Plan as part of this Program is limited to the aggregate number of Shares subject to Qualifying Stock Awards granted under the 2001 Plan that are deferred in the form of Deferred Shares under this Program. Deferred Shares credited to Participants' Deferred Share Accounts under this Program may accrue Dividend Equivalents that may be credited in the form of additional Deferred Shares and paid to Participants under this Program in the form of Shares. If the number of Shares payable under this Program would exceed the limit described in the preceding sentence because of the accumulation of Deferred Shares in respect of Dividend Equivalents, such excess Shares shall be issued and charged against the Share limits under the 2001 Plan. If insufficient Shares remain under the 2001 Plan for the accumulation of Dividend Equivalents, Dividend Equivalents may be paid (in the sole discretion of the Committee) in cash. 1.3 Relationship to Plans. This Program constitutes a deferred compensation plan providing alternative settlements under and as contemplated by the 2001 Plan in respect of Qualifying Stock Awards granted thereunder. This Program also contemplates the grant of Deferred Shares under and as contemplated by the 2001 Plan. This Program and all rights under it are provided and shall be subject to and construed consistently with the other terms of the 2001 Plan. 2
ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this Program with the first letter capitalized, they shall have the meanings specified below: Affiliate. "Affiliate" means: (a) any corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations (within the meaning of Code Section 1563(a), determined without regard to Code Sections 1563(a)(4) and (e)(3)(C), and with the phrase "more than 50%" substituted for the phrase "at least 80%" each place it appears in Code Section 1563(a)) of which Occidental Petroleum Corporation is a component member, or (b) any entity (whether or not incorporated) that is under common control with Occidental Petroleum Corporation (as defined in Code Section 414(c) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, and with the phrase "more than 50%" substituted for the phrase "at least 80%" each place it appears in the Treasury Regulations under Code Section 414(c)). Beneficiary. "Beneficiary" means the person or persons designated as such in accordance with Section 8.2. Board. "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Change in Control. "Change in Control" means any of the following: (a) Approval by the stockholders of the Company (or, if no stockholder approval is required, by the Board) of the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, other than in the context of a transaction that does not constitute a Change in Control under clause (b) below; (b) Consummation of a merger, consolidation, or other reorganization, with or into, or the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets as an entirety to, one or more entities that are not subsidiaries or other affiliates of the Company (a "Business Combination"), unless (i) as a result of the Business Combination, more than 50% of the outstanding voting power of the surviving or resulting entity or a parent thereof (the "Successor Entity") immediately after the Business Combination is, or will be, owned, directly or indirectly, by holders of the Company's voting securities immediately before the Business Combination; (ii) no "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time (the "Exchange Act")), excluding the Successor Entity or any employee benefit plan of the Company and any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under a Company employee benefit plan or any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1(b)(i) of the Exchange Act (an "Excluded Person"), beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, more than 20% of the outstanding shares or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Successor Entity, after giving effect to the Business Combination, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and (iii) at least 50% of the members of the board of directors of the entity resulting from the Business Combination were members of the Board at the time of the 3
execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board approving the Business Combination; (c) Any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any Excluded Person) is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities, other than as a result of (i) an acquisition directly from the Company; (ii) an acquisition by the Company; or (iii) an acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or a Successor Entity; or (d) During any period not longer than two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board cease to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election, or the nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, of each new Board member was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Board members then still in office who were Board members at the beginning of such period (including for these purposes, new members whose election or nomination was so approved), but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board. (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not occur if, prior to the Change in Control, the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board deems such an event to not be a Change in Control for the purposes of this Program. (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any event or occurrence described in subsections (a) through (d) does not constitute "a change in the ownership or effective control" as defined under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code, or any regulations promulgated thereunder, such event or occurrence shall not constitute a Change in Control for purposes of this Program. Code. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Committee. "Committee" means the administrative committee appointed to administer the Program pursuant to Article V. Common Stock. "Common Stock" means the Corporation's common stock, par value $.20 per share, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 4.5 of this Program. Company. "Company" means the Corporation and any Affiliates. Corporation. "Corporation" means Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation. 4
Current Dividend Equivalent. "Current Dividend Equivalent" means a Dividend Equivalent paid to the Participant in the form of cash at the same time as dividends are paid on Shares to the Corporation's shareholders. Deferral Election. "Deferral Election" means an election by an Eligible Person pursuant to Section 3.1 of this Program (i) to delay the delivery of Shares upon the vesting of a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Elective Deferral or a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Elective Deferral, as the case may be or (ii) to exchange restricted Shares subject to a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Elective Deferral for Deferred Shares under this Program upon the vesting of such Qualifying Restricted Stock Award. Deferred Dividend Equivalent. "Deferred Dividend Equivalent" means a Dividend Equivalent credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account in the form of additional Deferred Shares (rounded to four decimal places) and paid to the Participant in the form of Shares at the same time that the other Deferred Shares credited to the Participant's Deferred Share Account are distributed in the form of Shares to the Participant. Deferred Share. "Deferred Share" means a non-voting unit of measurement which is deemed solely for bookkeeping purposes to be equivalent to one outstanding Share (subject to Section 4.5) solely for purposes of this Program. Deferred Share Account. "Deferred Share Account" means the bookkeeping account maintained by the Company on behalf of each Participant that is credited with Deferred Shares in accordance with Sections 4.1(a) and Dividend Equivalents thereon in accordance with Section 4.2. Disability. "Disability" means a condition under which a Participant either (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits and has received such payments for a period of at least 6 months under the Company's disability plan. Distribution Election Form. "Distribution Election Form" means an election form provided by the Committee on which a Participant may elect an alternative form of distribution, which election will be effective only if the Participant's termination of employment with the Company occurs on or after becoming eligible for Retirement, as provided in Section 4.4(c), and the Participant's election satisfies the other requirements set forth in Section 4.4(c). Dividend Equivalent. "Dividend Equivalent" means the amount of cash dividends or other cash distributions paid by the Corporation on that number of Shares equal to the number of Deferred Shares credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account as of the applicable record date for the dividend or other distribution, which amount shall be either credited as a Deferred Dividend Equivalent to the Deferred Share Account of the Participant or 5
paid to the Participant as a Current Dividend Equivalent in accordance with the terms of Section 4.2. Effective Date. "Effective Date" means January 1, 2005. Elective Deferral Award. "Elective Deferral Award" means either a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Elective Deferral, a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Elective Deferral, or a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Elective Deferral. Eligible Person. "Eligible Person" means any employee of the Company who holds a Qualifying Stock Award granted under the 2001 Plan. Exchange Act. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. Fair Market Value. "Fair Market Value" has the meaning given to such term in the 2001 Plan. Key Employee. "Key Employee" means an employee of the Company who is a "key employee" as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code. Mandatory Deferral Award. "Mandatory Deferral Award" means either a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral, a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Mandatory Deferral, or a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral. Participant. "Participant" means any person who has Deferred Shares credited to a Deferred Share Account under this Program. Performance Stock Award. "Performance Stock Award" means a "Performance-Based Award" under and as defined in the 2001 Plan. Program. "Program" means this Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Stock Program, as it may be amended from time to time. Qualifying Performance Stock Award. "Qualifying Performance Stock Award" means either a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Elective Deferral or a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral. Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Elective Deferral. "Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Elective Deferral" means any Performance Stock Award other than a Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral that either (i) is outstanding on the Effective Date, (ii) by its terms permits the holder to elect to delay the delivery of Shares subject thereto beyond the vesting date, or (iii) is otherwise designated by the Committee as eligible for deferral of the delivery of the Shares beyond the vesting date under this Program. 6
Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral. "Qualifying Performance Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral" means any Performance Stock Award that, by its terms, delays the delivery of Shares subject thereto beyond the vesting date. Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award. "Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award" means either a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Elective Deferral or a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Mandatory Deferral. Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Elective Deferral. "Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Elective Deferral" means a Restricted Share Unit Award other than a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Mandatory Deferral that either (i) by its terms permits the holder to elect to delay the delivery of Shares subject thereto beyond the vesting date or (ii) is otherwise designated by the Committee as eligible for deferral of the delivery of the Shares beyond the vesting date under this Program. Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Mandatory Deferral. "Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award with Mandatory Deferral" means a Restricted Share Unit Award that, by its terms, delays the delivery of Shares subject thereto beyond the vesting date. Qualifying Restricted Stock Award. "Qualifying Restricted Stock Award" means either a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Elective Deferral or a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral. Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Elective Deferral. "Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Elective Deferral" means a Restricted Stock Award other than a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral that either (i) by its terms permits the holder to make a Deferral Election with respect thereto or (ii) is otherwise designated by the Committee as an award with respect to which a Deferral Election may be made. Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral. "Qualifying Restricted Stock Award with Mandatory Deferral" means a Restricted Stock Award that, by its terms, delays the delivery of the Shares subject thereto beyond the vesting date. Qualifying Stock Award. "Qualifying Stock Award" means a Qualifying Restricted Stock Award, a Qualifying Performance Stock Award or a Qualifying Restricted Share Unit Award. Restricted Share Unit Award. "Restricted Share Unit Award" means a grant of restricted units, with each such unit representing the right to receive one Share under the 2001 Plan. Restricted Stock Award. "Restricted Stock Award" means a grant of restricted stock under the 2001 Plan. Retires. "Retires" means terminates employment on or after qualifying for Retirement. 7
Retirement. "Retirement" means (a) the termination a Participant's employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death after the Participant attains age 65, (b) the termination of a Participant's employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death after the Participant attains age 55 and completes five (5) Years of Service or (c) the Participant's attainment of age 55 following the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for reasons other than Disability or death prior to age 55 if the Participant qualifies for retiree medical coverage under the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Medical Plan on the date of the Participant's termination of employment. Retirement Plan. "Retirement Plan" means the Occidental Petroleum Corporation Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. Rule 16b-3. "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Section 16 Officer. "Section 16 Officer" means an officer of the Corporation as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act. Share. "Share" means a share of Common Stock. 2001 Plan. "2001 Plan" means the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time. Years of Service. "Years of Service" means the number of full years credited to the Participant under the Retirement Plan for vesting purposes. 8
ARTICLE III DEFERRAL OF STOCK AWARDS 3.1 Elective Deferral Awards. (a) Participation. An Eligible Person may make an advance Deferral Election in respect of an Elective Deferral Award in order to receive a credit of Deferred Shares under this Program. Any such Deferral Election must apply to all Shares or share units, as the case may be, subject to the Elective Deferral Award. (b) Manner and Timing of Deferral Election. A Deferral Election may be made only by an Eligible Person by completing a Deferral Election form provided by the Committee and delivering that Deferral Election form to the Committee at least twelve (12) months before any Shares or share units, as the case may be, that are subject to the Elective Deferral Award become vested. Any Deferral Election form received by the Committee within twelve (12) months of the vesting of any Shares or share units, as the case may be, under an Elective Deferral Award will be considered void and shall have no force or effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if applicable law requires that a Deferral Election be made at an earlier date in order to defer taxation with respect to such Shares or share units, as the case may be, the Committee shall require Deferral Elections to be filed by such earlier date, and any Deferral Election received by the Committee after such date shall be considered void and shall have no force or effect. (c) Election Irrevocable. A Deferral Election made in accordance with this Section 3.1 for a credit of Deferred Shares under this Program shall be irrevocable once it is received by the Committee. 3.2 Mandatory Deferral Awards. Shares or share units, as the case may be, that become vested under a Mandatory Deferral Award granted on or after the Effective Date shall automatically be subject to the terms of this Program and be credited as Deferred Shares as provided in Section 4.1(a). 9
ARTICLE IV DEFERRED SHARE ACCOUNTS 4.1 Crediting of Deferred Shares. (a) Vesting of Qualifying Stock Awards. As of the date that all or any portion of an Elective Deferral Award that is subject to a Deferral Election under Section 3.1 becomes vested, no Shares shall be issued to (or, in the case of a Restricted Stock Award, the restricted Shares shall be forfeited by) the Eligible Person. Instead (or in exchange therefor), as of the date that all or any portion of an Elective Deferral Award becomes vested, the Eligible Person's Deferred Share Account shall be credited with the number of Deferred Shares that is equal to the number of share units or Shares, as the case may be, that first became vested as of that date. (b) Limitations on Rights Associated with Deferred Shares. A Participant's Deferred Share Account shall be a memorandum account on the books of the Corporation. The Deferred Shares credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account shall be used solely as a device for the determination of the number of Shares to be eventually issued to such Participant in accordance with this Program. The Deferred Shares shall not be treated as property or as a trust fund of any kind. No Participant shall be entitled to any voting or other shareholder rights with respect to Deferred Shares granted or credited under this Program. The number of Deferred Shares credited (and the Shares to which the Participant is entitled under this Program) shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 4.5 of this Program. 4.2 Dividend Equivalents. (a) Election of Current or Deferred Dividend Equivalents. An individual who becomes an Eligible Person under this Program shall make a one-time irrevocable election as to whether Dividend Equivalents under this Program will be paid in the form of Current Dividend Equivalents or Deferred Dividend Equivalents no later than the earlier of (i) the date that the Eligible Person first makes a Deferral Election under Section 3.1 of this Program or (ii) the date that a Mandatory Deferral Award is first granted to such Eligible Person. Any such election shall be on a form provided by and delivered to the Committee. If an Eligible Person fails to make such an election at the time required hereunder, he shall be deemed to have elected the Current Dividend Equivalents. Any such election shall apply with respect to all Dividend Equivalents attributable to all Deferred Shares credited to such Participant under this Program. A Participant may not change his Dividend Equivalent election. (b) Deferred Dividend Equivalents Credits to Deferred Share Accounts. As of any applicable dividend or distribution payment date, the Deferred Share Account of each Participant who has elected Deferred Dividend Equivalents shall be credited with additional Deferred Shares in an amount equal to the amount of the Dividend Equivalents divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the applicable dividend or distribution payment date. If the limit on the number of Shares available under this Program in respect of Dividend Equivalents is reached, the Company may in its discretion pay such Dividend Equivalents to Participants as Current Dividend Equivalents. 10
(c) Payment of Current Dividend Equivalents. At the time that the Corporation distributes dividend payments to its shareholders, the Company shall pay to each Participant who has elected Current Dividend Equivalents a cash payment in an amount equal to the amount of the Dividend Equivalents attributable to the Deferred Shares credited to his Deferred Share Account. 4.3 Vesting. All Deferred Shares (including Deferred Shares credited as Dividend Equivalents) credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account shall be at all times fully vested and nonforfeitable. 4.4 Distribution of Benefits. (a) Form of Distribution. Deferred Shares credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account shall be distributed in an equivalent whole number of Shares. Fractional share interests shall be settled in cash. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay Deferred Shares credited as Dividend Equivalents in cash in lieu of Shares. (b) Timing of Distribution of Benefits. Benefits in respect of the Deferred Shares credited to a Participant's Deferred Share Account shall be distributed to the Participant (or his Beneficiary in the case of death) within the first ninety (90) days of the year following the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for any reason (including, without limitation, Retirement, death, Disability, resignation or termination by the Company). If a Participant's benefits are paid in annual installments under Section 4.4(c), each annual installment shall be paid within the first ninety (90) days of each calendar year. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that a Participant who is a Key Employee is entitled to a distribution from the Program upon or by virtue of such Participant's termination of employment for a reason other than death or Disability, such Participant shall not receive any distribution from the Program until at least six months after the date of such Participant's termination of employment. (c) Manner of Distribution. (i) General Rules. Distribution will generally be in the form of lump sum payment. However, if a Participant terminates employment on or after becoming eligible for Retirement, his Deferred Shares may instead be paid in annual installments over two (2) to twenty (20) years or in a combination of an initial lump sum payment followed by annual installments over the subsequent one (1) to twenty (20) years. The number of Shares to be distributed in each annual distribution shall be equal to the number of Shares then credited to the Participant's Deferred Share Account divided by the number of remaining annual installments. Such number shall be adjusted downward to the nearest whole number of Shares so that no fractional Shares interests are distributed until the last annual installment distribution. 11
(ii) Retirement Distribution Election. An individual who becomes an Eligible Person under this Program shall make an election as to his form of distribution no later than the earlier of (A) the date that the Eligible Person first makes a Deferral Election under Section 3.1 of this Program or (B) the date that a Mandatory Deferral Award is first granted to such Eligible Person. An election made under this subsection (ii) shall be made on a Distribution Election Form provided by and delivered to the Committee, and such election shall apply to all Deferred Shares credited under this Program. A Participant who fails to make an election in accordance with this subsection (ii) regarding the form of distribution upon or following Retirement will be deemed to have elected a lump sum. (iii) Changes to Retirement Distribution Election. A Participant may not change his election as to the form of Retirement distribution under this Program unless and until the Program is amended to provide for changes that comply with the requirements for such changes under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code. Any change of election as to the form of retirement distribution under any other deferral plan or program of the Company made by an Eligible Person after such Eligible Person's first Deferral Election under this Program shall have no effect on such Eligible Person's form of Retirement distribution under this Program. (iv) Override of Retirement Distribution Election. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion: (A) distribute the benefits in a single lump sum if the sum of Shares to be distributed to the Participant is less than or equal to 1,000, or (B) reduce the number of installments elected by the Participant to produce an annual distribution of at least 100 Shares; provided, however, that if this provision would cause amounts deferred under this Program to be included in the income of Participants prior to the date of distribution, this provision shall not apply and distributions to the Participant shall be in accordance with his election under this Program. (d) Survivor Benefits. If the Participant dies at any time before or after termination of employment with the Company while there are Deferred Shares credited to his Deferred Share Account, the Committee shall distribute the benefits in respect of such remaining Deferred Shares to the Participant's Beneficiary in a lump sum during the first ninety (90) days of the calendar year following the year in which the Participant's death occurred. 12
(e) Effect of Change of Control. In the event of a Change in Control, the following rules shall apply: (i) All Participants shall continue to have a fully vested, nonforfeitable interest in their Deferred Share Account balances. (ii) All payments in respect of Deferred Share Accounts following a Change in Control shall be made as follows: (A) Payments that have already commenced shall continue to be made no less rapidly than under the schedule in effect just prior to the Change in Control. (B) Payments that have not yet commenced shall be made (in the form of Shares unless the Committee provides otherwise) in a lump sum at the earliest possible payment date under the normal rules for benefit commencement pursuant to Section 4.4(b) as in effect on the day before the day of the Change in Control. (iii) A Participant's termination of employment for purposes of this Program shall be deemed to include (but shall not be limited to) any event (such as a constructive discharge) giving the Participant the right to receive salary continuation or other severance benefits following a Change in Control, as determined under any plan, program, or agreement covering the Participant that is in effect at the time of the Change in Control. (iv) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.4(e), a Participant who had previously elected a form of Retirement distribution other than a single lump sum may receive an accelerated lump sum distribution from the Program under Section 4.4(e)(ii)(B) only to the extent allowed under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code or any regulations promulgated thereunder. (f) Section 162(m) Limitation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Committee determines in good faith that there is a reasonable likelihood that any benefits payable to a Participant for a taxable year of the Company would not be deductible by the Company solely by reason of the limitation under Code Section 162(m), then to the extent reasonably deemed necessary by the Committee to ensure that the entire amount of any distribution to the Participant pursuant to this Program is deductible, the Committee may defer all or any portion of a distribution under this Program. The amounts so deferred shall be distributed to the Participant or his Beneficiary (in the event of the Participant's death) at the earliest possible date, as determined by the Committee in good faith, on which the deductibility of compensation paid or payable to the Participant for the taxable year of the Company during which the distribution is made will not be limited by Code Section 162(m). 13
4.5 Adjustments in Case of Changes in Common Stock. (a) If the outstanding Shares are increased, decreased, or exchanged for a different number or kind of securities, or if additional shares or new or different shares or other securities are distributed with respect to such Shares or other securities, through merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or similar change in capitalization or any other distribution with respect to such Shares or other securities, proportionate and equitable adjustments consistent with the effect of such event on stockholders generally (but without duplication of benefits if Dividend Equivalents are credited) shall be made in the number and type of Shares or other securities, property and/or rights contemplated hereunder and of rights in respect of Deferred Shares and Deferred Share Accounts credited under this Program so as to preserve the benefits intended. The provisions of Section 6.2 of the 2001 Plan shall also apply to the related Deferred Shares granted under the 2001 Plan in accordance with this Program. (b) If the event results in any rights of shareholders to receive cash (other than cash dividends and cash distributions), a corresponding amount of cash shall be paid to each Participant as soon as practicable following the date the cash is paid in respect of outstanding Shares. 4.6 Company's Right to Withhold. The Company (including its Affiliates) may satisfy any state or federal tax withholding obligation arising upon a distribution of Shares and any cash with respect to a Participant's Deferred Share Account by reducing the number of Shares or cash otherwise deliverable to the Participant. The appropriate number of Shares required to satisfy such tax withholding obligation in the case of Deferred Shares will be based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of distribution. If the Company (including its Affiliates), for any reason, elects not to (or cannot) satisfy the withholding obligation in accordance with the preceding sentence, the Participant shall pay or provide for payment in cash of the amount of any taxes which the Company (including its Affiliates) may be required to withhold with respect to the benefits hereunder, before any such benefits are paid. 4.7 Termination of Employment. For the purpose of this Article IV, a Participant will be deemed to have terminated employment if the Participant ceases to be an employee of any of the following: (a) the Company; (b) an Affiliate; or (c) any other entity, whether or not incorporated, in which the Company has an ownership interest, and the Committee has designated that the Participant's commencement of employment with such entity upon Participant's ceasing to be an employee of an entity described in (a) or (b) above will not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of this Program, provided that such designation shall be made in writing by the Committee and shall be communicated to the Participant prior to his commencement of employment with the entity so designated. 14
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for any purpose under this Program unless such termination of employment constitutes "a separation from service" as defined under Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code or any regulations promulgated thereunder governing nonqualified deferred compensation plans. For the purposes of the preceding provisions, a Participant who ceases to be an employee of an entity described in (a), (b) or (c) above shall not be deemed to have terminated employment if such cessation of employment is followed immediately by his commencement of employment with another entity described in (a), (b) or (c) above. 15
ARTICLE V ADMINISTRATION 5.1 The Administrator. The Committee hereunder shall consist of (i) the members of the Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board who are Non-Employee Directors within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 and "outside directors" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, or (ii) such other committee of the Board, each participating member of which is a Non-Employee Director (as defined in Rule 16b-3) and each member of which is an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, as may hereafter be appointed by the Board to serve as administrator of this Program. Any member of the Committee may resign by delivering a written resignation to the Board. Members of the Committee shall not receive any additional compensation for administration of this Program. 5.2 Committee Action. Action of the Committee with respect to the administration of this Program shall be taken pursuant to a majority vote or by unanimous written consent of its members. 5.3 Rights And Duties. (a) Subject to the limitations of this Program, the Committee shall be charged with the general administration of this Program and the responsibility for carrying out its provisions, and shall have powers necessary to accomplish those purposes, including, but not by way of limitation, the following: (i) To construe and interpret this Program; (ii) To resolve any questions concerning the amount of benefits payable to a Participant; (iii) To make all other determinations required by this Program, including adjustments under Section 4.5; (iv) To maintain all the necessary records for the administration of this Program and provide statements of Deferred Share Accounts to Participants on an annual or more frequent basis; (v) To make and publish forms, rules and procedures for the administration of this Program; and (vi) To administer the claims procedures set forth in Article VI for presentation of claims by Participants and Beneficiaries for benefits under this Program, including consideration of such claims, review of claim denials and issuance of a decision on review. (b) The Committee shall have full discretion to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of this Program (but not to increase amounts payable hereunder) and to 16
resolve any disputed question or controversy, which interpretation or construction or resolution, including decisions with respect to adjustments under Section 4.5, shall be final and binding on all parties, including but not limited to the Company and any Eligible Person, Participant or Beneficiary, except as otherwise required by law. The Committee shall administer such terms and provisions in a nondiscriminatory manner and in full accordance with any and all laws applicable to this Program. In performing its duties, the Committee shall be entitled to rely on information, opinions, reports or statements prepared or presented by: (i) officers or employees of the Company whom the Committee believes to be reliable and competent as to such matters; and (ii) counsel (who may be employees of the Company), independent accountants and other persons as to matters which the Committee believes to be within such persons' professional or expert competence. The Committee shall be fully protected with respect to any action taken or omitted by it in good faith pursuant to the advice of such persons. The Committee may appoint a program administrator or any other agent, and delegate to them such powers and duties in connection with the administration of this Program as the Committee may from time to time prescribe. 5.4 Indemnity and Liability. All expenses of the Committee shall be paid by the Company and the Company shall furnish the Committee with such clerical and other assistance as is necessary in the performance of its duties. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee nor for any act or omission on his own part. To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify and save harmless each member of the Committee against any and all expenses and liabilities arising out of his membership on the Committee. 17
ARTICLE VI CLAIMS PROCEDURE 6.1 Applications for Benefits. All applications for benefits under the Program shall be submitted to: Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Attention: Corporate Secretary, 10889 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90024. Applications for benefits must be in writing on the forms prescribed by the Committee and must be signed by the Participant, or in the case of a death benefit, by the Beneficiary or legal representative of the deceased Participant. 6.2 Claims Procedures for Benefits other than Disability Benefits. (a) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 90 days after receipt of a claim for benefits (other than Disability benefits), the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any adverse benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a determination on the claim. (b) In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Program provisions on which the adverse benefit determination is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why the material or information is necessary; and (iv) a description of the Program's claim review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 6.4. (c) Within 60 days after receipt by the claimant of notification of the adverse benefit determination, the claimant or his duly authorized representative, upon written application to the Committee, may request that the Committee fully and fairly review the adverse benefit determination. On review of an adverse benefit determination, upon request and free of charge, the claimant shall have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. The claimant shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. The Committee's (or delegate's) review shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted regardless of whether the information was previously considered in the initial adverse benefit determination. (d) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 60 days after receipt of such request for review, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any final benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for 18
processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 60 days from the end of the initial 60-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 60-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a final determination on the request for review. In the case of an adverse final benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse final benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Program provisions on which the adverse final benefit determination is based; (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits; and (iv) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 6.4. 6.3 Claims Procedures for Disability Benefits. (a) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 45 days after receipt of a claim for Disability benefits, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any adverse benefit determination on the claim, unless circumstances beyond the Program's control require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 30 days from the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 45-day period. The notice shall describe the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a determination on the claim. If, prior to the end of the first 30-day extension period, the Committee or its delegate determines that, due to circumstances beyond the control of the Program, a decision cannot be rendered within that extension period, the period for making the determination may be extended for an additional 30 days, so long as the Committee or its delegate notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the first 30-day extension period, of the circumstances requiring the extension and the date as of which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a decision. This notice of extension shall specifically describe the standards on which entitlement to a benefit is based, the unresolved issues that prevent a decision on the claim, and the additional information needed to resolve those issues, and that the claimant has at least 45 days within which to provide the specified information. (b) In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Program provisions on which the adverse benefit determination is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why the material or information is necessary; (iv) a description of the Program's claim review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 6.4; (v) if an internal rule, guideline, protocol or similar criterion ("internal standard") was relied upon in making the determination, a copy of the 19
internal standard or a statement that the internal standard was relied upon and that a copy of the internal standard shall be provided to the claimant free of charge upon request; and (vi) if the determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination or a statement that such explanation shall be provided free of charge upon request. (c) Within 180 days after receipt by the claimant of notification of the adverse benefit determination, the claimant or his duly authorized representative, upon written application to the Committee, may request that the Committee fully and fairly review the adverse benefit determination. On review of an adverse benefit determination, upon request and free of charge, the claimant shall have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. The claimant shall have the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim for benefits. The Committee's (or delegate's) review: (i) shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted regardless of whether the information was previously considered in the initial adverse benefit determination; (ii) shall not afford deference to the initial adverse benefit determination; (iii) shall be conducted by an appropriate named fiduciary of the Program who is neither an individual who made the initial adverse benefit determination nor a subordinate of such individual; (iv) if the adverse benefit determination was based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, shall identify medical and vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the Program in connection with the initial adverse benefit determination; and (v) shall consult an appropriate health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the relevant field of medicine and who or whose subordinate was not consulted in the initial adverse benefit determination. (d) Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than 45 days after receipt of such request for review, the Committee or its delegate shall notify the claimant of any final benefit determination on the claim, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension period exceed 45 days from the end of the initial 45-day period. If an extension is necessary, the Committee or its delegate shall provide the claimant with a written notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 45-day period. The notice shall describe the special circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the Committee or its delegate expects to render a final determination on the request for review. In the case of an adverse final benefit determination, the Committee or its delegate shall provide to the claimant written or electronic notification setting forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant: (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse final benefit determination; (ii) reference to the specific Program provisions on which the adverse final benefit determination is based; (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits; (iv) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse final benefit determination on review and in accordance with Section 6.4; (v) if an internal standard was relied upon in making the determination, a copy of the internal standard or a statement that the internal standard was relied upon and that a copy of the internal standard shall be provided to the claimant free of charge upon request; (vi) if the determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination or a statement that such explanation shall be provided free of 20
charge upon request; and (vii) the following statement: "You and your plan may have other voluntary alternative dispute resolution options, such as mediation. One way to find out what may be available is to contact your local U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State insurance regulatory agency." 6.4 Limitations on Actions. No legal action may be commenced prior to the completion of the benefit claims procedure described herein. In addition, no legal action may be commenced after the later of (a) 180 days after receiving the written response of the Committee to an appeal, or (b) 365 days after an applicant's original application for benefits. 21
ARTICLE VII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PROGRAM 7.1 Amendment. The Board may amend this Program in whole or in part at any time or may at any time suspend or terminate this Program. The Executive Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board may amend this Program to (a) ensure that this Program complies with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code for the deferral of taxation on amounts deferred hereunder until the time of distribution and (b) add provisions for changes to Deferral Elections and elections as to time and manner of distributions and other changes that comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code for the deferral of taxation on deferred compensation until the time of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment shall reduce the number of Deferred Shares and Dividend Equivalents credited to any Participant's Deferred Share Account or cancel any Participant's right to receive Dividend Equivalents (and any cash that may become payable pursuant to Section 4.5(b)) without the consent of the affected Participant. Any amendments authorized hereby shall be stated in an instrument in writing and all Eligible Persons shall be bound thereby upon receipt of written notice thereof. Adjustments pursuant to Section 4.5 hereof shall not be deemed amendments to this Program, the Deferred Share Accounts or the rights of Participants. 7.2 Term. It is the current expectation of the Company that this Program shall be continued indefinitely, but continuance of this Program is not assumed as a contractual obligation of the Company. In the event that the Board decides to discontinue or terminate this Program, it shall notify the Committee and Participants in this Program of its action in writing, and this Program shall be terminated at the time therein set forth. All Participants shall be bound thereby. In connection with the termination of this Program, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, elect to accelerate the distribution date for all Deferred Share Accounts (including Deferred Share Accounts being paid in or otherwise to be paid in the form of installments) and make a lump sum distribution in respect thereof; provided, however, that if the foregoing provision would cause the amounts deferred under this Program to be included in the income of Participants prior to the date of distribution, such provision shall not apply and distributions to the Participants or their Beneficiaries shall be made on the dates on which the Participants or their Beneficiaries would receive benefits hereunder without regard to the termination of the Program. 22
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS 8.1 Limitation on Participant's Rights. Participation in this Program shall not give any person the right to continued employment or service or any rights or interests other than as herein provided. No Participant shall have any right to any payment or benefit hereunder except to the extent provided in this Program. This Program creates no fiduciary duty to Participants and shall create only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company as to such amounts; this Program shall not be construed as creating a trust. This Program, in and of itself, has no assets. Participants shall have rights no greater than the right to receive the Common Stock (and any cash as expressly provided herein) or the value thereof as a general unsecured creditor in respect of their Deferred Share Accounts. 8.2 Beneficiary Designation. Upon forms provided by and subject to conditions imposed by the Company, each Participant may designate in writing the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries whom such Participant desires to receive any Shares or amounts payable under this Program after his death. A Participant may from time to time change his designated Beneficiary or Beneficiaries without the consent of such Beneficiary or Beneficiaries by filing a new designation with the Committee. However, if a married Participant wishes to designate a person other than his spouse as Beneficiary, such designation shall be consented to in writing by the spouse, which consent shall acknowledge the effect of the designation. The Participant may change any election designating a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries without any requirement of further spousal consent if the spouse's consent so provides. Notwithstanding the foregoing, spousal consent shall be unnecessary if it is established (to the satisfaction of the Committee or a Committee representative) that there is no spouse or that the required consent cannot be obtained because the spouse cannot be located. The Company and the Committee may rely on the Participant's designation of a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries last filed in accordance with the terms of this Program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant has completed a beneficiary designation form for deferred Shares under any other plan or program of the Company, such prior designation shall be the Beneficiary designation under this Program and apply to all benefits of the Participant hereunder unless changed in accordance with this Section 8.2. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, any benefits remaining unpaid shall be paid in accordance with the Participant's Beneficiary designation under the Company's Retirement Program, and if there is no such valid Beneficiary designation, to the Participant's then surviving spouse, or if none, to the Participant's estate, unless directed otherwise by the court that has jurisdiction over the assets belonging to the Participant's probate estate. 8.3 Payments to Minors or Persons Under Incapacity. Every person receiving or claiming benefits under this Program shall be conclusively presumed to be mentally competent and of age until the date on which the Committee receives a written notice, in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee, that such person is incompetent or a minor, for whom a guardian or other person legally vested with the care of his person or estate has been appointed; provided, however, that if the Committee finds that any person to whom a benefit is payable under this Program is unable to care for his affairs because of incompetency, or because he is a minor, any 23
payment due (unless a prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed legal representative) may be paid to the spouse, a child, a parent, a brother or sister, or to any person or institution considered by the Committee to have incurred expense for such person otherwise entitled to payment. To the extent permitted by law, any such payment so made shall be a complete discharge of liability therefor under this Program. If a guardian of the estate of any person receiving or claiming benefits under this Program is appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, benefit payments may be made to such guardian provided that proper proof of appointment and continuing qualification is furnished in a form and manner acceptable to the Committee. In the event a person claiming or receiving benefits under this Program is a minor, payment may be made to the custodian of an account for such person under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act. To the extent permitted by law, any such payment so made shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under this Program. 8.4 Receipt and Release. Any payment to a Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of this Program shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims against the Board, the Committee, and the Company. The Committee may require such Participant or Beneficiary, as a condition precedent to such payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect. 8.5 Deferred Shares and Other Benefits Not Assignable; Obligations Binding Upon Successors. Deferred Shares and other benefits of a Participant under this Program shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Program, or any interest therein, other than by operation of law or pursuant to Section 8.2, shall not be permitted or recognized. Obligations of the Company under this Program shall be binding upon successors of the Company. 8.6 Employment Taxes. The Company (including its Affiliates) may satisfy any state or federal employment tax withholding obligation arising from a deferral of a Qualifying Stock Award under this Program by deducting such amount from any amount of compensation payable to the Participant. Alternatively, the Company (including its Affiliates) may require the Participant to deliver to it the amount of any such withholding obligation as a condition to the deferral of the Qualifying Stock Award. The Company (including its Affiliates) may instead satisfy any such withholding obligation by reducing the number of Deferred Shares that would otherwise be credited to the Participant's Deferred Share Account as a result of the deferral, provided that the Company (or the applicable Affiliate) and the Participant make appropriate arrangements to satisfy all additional income and employment tax withholding obligations that arise as a result of using this Deferred Share credit reduction method to satisfy the original employment tax withholding obligation. 8.7 Governing Law; Severability. The validity of this Program or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Delaware to the extent such laws are not preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective. 24
8.8 Compliance with Laws. This Program, the Company's issuance of Deferred Shares, and the offer, issuance and delivery of Shares and/or the payment in Shares through the deferral of compensation under this Program are subject to compliance with all applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and federal securities law) and to such approvals by any listing, agency or any regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be necessary or advisable in connection therewith. Any securities delivered under this Program shall be subject to such restrictions, and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company, provide such assurances and representations to the Company as the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements. 8.9 Program Construction. It is the intent of the Company that transactions pursuant to this Program, with respect to Eligible Persons or Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, satisfy and be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 so that to the extent elections are timely made, the crediting of Deferred Shares and the distribution of Shares with respect to Deferred Shares under this Program will be entitled to the benefits of Rule 16b-3 or other exemptive rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not be subjected to avoidable liability thereunder. 8.10 Compliance with Tax Laws to Preserve Tax Deferral. This Program shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that is consistent with, and that satisfies the requirements of, Section 409A (or other applicable section) of the Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder, so that the taxation to Participants or Beneficiaries of any compensation deferred under this Program is deferred until distribution as expressly provided under this Program. 8.11 Headings Not Part of Program. Headings and subheadings in this Program are inserted for reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the provisions hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this document this ___ day of _______________, 2004. OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION By ----------------------------------------- Richard W. Hallock Executive Vice-President, Human Resources 25


