FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20050803192508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) August 3, 2005
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events
 
As previously reported in the Company's filings, Occidental was notified last year that Petroecuador, the state oil company of Ecuador, was initiating proceedings to determine if Occidental had violated its Participation Contract for Block 15, or the Ecuadorian Hydrocarbons Law, and whether the alleged violations constitute grounds for terminating the Participation Contract. The principal allegation was an assertion that Occidental should have obtained government approval of a farmout agreement entered into in 2000.
 
On August 3, 2005, Carlos Pareja, the President of Petroecuador, announced that he has asked the country's Minister of Energy and Mines to rescind Occidental's Participation Contract for Block 15. He also announced his resignation as the President of Petroecuador, "at the government's request."
 
Under Ecuador law, the Minister of Energy and Mines would make any final decision as to whether the Occidental contract would be rescinded.
 
Occidental believes that it has complied with all material obligations under the Participation Contract and Ecuadorian law, and that any termination of the contract based upon the stated allegations would be unfounded and would constitute an unlawful expropriation. Occidental continues to seek a constructive dialogue with the Ecuadorian authorities and will continue to strive for an amicable resolution.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


