FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20060222163950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 16, 2006
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(310) 208-8800
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[     ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[     ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[     ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[     ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
  
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On February 16, 2006, pursuant to the terms of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Board of Directors of Occidental Petroleum Corporation approved the grants described below to be made automatically without further action of the Board and approved the form of grant agreement for such awards, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. The award amounts are the same and the terms of the award agreement are in all material respects identical to the awards that were granted in prior years under the 1996 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors:
 
(a) Annual Awards. On the first business day following each annual meeting commencing with the 2006 Annual Meeting, each non-employee Director who is then a member of the Board shall be awarded two thousand five hundred (2,500) whole shares of restricted stock.
 
(b) Special Awards. On the first business day following each annual meeting commencing with the 2006 Annual Meeting, each non-employee Director who is then serving as a Chairman of one or more committees of the Board or as Lead Independent Director shall be awarded four hundred (400) whole shares of restricted stock with respect to each such position, in addition to any award he or she may be granted pursuant to (a) above.
 
(c) Interim Awards. If, following the 2006 Annual Meeting, a non-employee Director is elected other than at an annual meeting, then on the first business day following his or her election as a member of the Board, such newly elected non-employee Director shall be awarded the number of shares (rounded to the nearest whole share) of restricted stock equal to two thousand five hundred (2,500) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of regularly scheduled Board meetings remaining between the date of his or her election and the next annual meeting and the denominator of which is the number of regularly scheduled Board meetings between the immediately preceding annual meeting and the next scheduled annual meeting, provided that such non-employee Director did not receive an annual award in the immediately preceding twelve months.
 
In addition, on February 16, the Board of Directors approved increasing the annual retainer paid to non-employee Directors from $50,000 per year to $60,000 per year, commencing with the director term following the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. A description of the non-employee Director's annual retainer and attendance fees is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
2005 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD
FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS
GRANT AGREEMENT
 
 
 
(this "Agreement") made as of the Date of Grant between OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("Occidental" or the "Company"), and the Eligible Person receiving this Award (the "Grantee").
Agreement
1.          . In accordance with this Agreement and the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the "Plan"), Occidental hereby grants to the Grantee as of the Date of Grant, the number of shares of Restricted Stock set forth above. The Restricted Stock shall be fully paid and nonassessable and shall be represented by a book-entry account registered in the name of the Grantee with Occidental's registrar and stock transfer agent that will be subject to the restrictions hereinafter set forth until those shares have become transferable in accordance with Section 2.
Grant of Restricted Stock
2.           The shares of Restricted Stock may not be transferred, sold, pledged, exchanged, assigned or otherwise encumbered or disposed of by the Grantee, except to Occidental, until the day following the date that the Grantee ceases serving as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that the Grantee may designate from time to time any beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom any shares of Restricted Stock and any cash amounts are to be paid in case of the Grantee's death before receipt of such Restricted Stock and cash. If a written beneficiary designation is not on file with Occidental at the time of the Grantee's death, the Grantee's interest in the Restricted Stock will be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any purported transfer, encumbrance or other disposition of the Restricted Stock that is in violation of this Section 2 shall be null and void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in the Restricted Stock.
Restrictions on Transfer of Restricted Stock.
3.          . The Restricted Stock shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable as of the Date of Grant.
Vesting of Restricted Stock
4.          . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Grantee shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock, including the right to vote such shares and receive any dividends that may be paid thereon; provided, however, that any additional shares of Common Stock or other securities that the Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, separation or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of Occidental shall be subject to the same restrictions as the shares of Restricted Stock.
Dividend, Voting and Other Rights
 
5.          . Nothing contained in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the stockholders of Occidental to remove the Grantee from the Board pursuant to the by-laws of Occidental, nor confer upon any Grantee any right to continue in the service of Occidental as a member of the Board.
Retention as Director
6.          . The Grantee is responsible for any federal, state, local or foreign tax, including income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding with respect to the grant of Restricted Stock (including the grant, the vesting, the receipt of Common Shares, the sale of Common Shares and the receipt of dividends, if any). The Company does not guarantee any particular tax treatment or results in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock or the payment of dividends.
Taxes and Withholding
7.          . The Company will make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws; however, the Company will not issue any Common Shares or other securities pursuant to this Agreement if their issuance would result in a violation of any such law by the Company.
Compliance with Law
8.           The number or kind of shares of stock covered by this Restricted Stock award may be adjusted as the Administrator determines pursuant to Section 7.2 of the Plan in order to prevent dilution or expansion of the Grantee's rights under this Agreement as a result of events such as stock dividends, stock splits, or other change in the capital structure of Occidental, or any merger, consolidation, spin-off, liquidation or other corporate transaction or event having a similar effect. If any such adjustment occurs, the Company will give the Grantee written notice of the adjustment containing an explanation of the nature of the adjustment.
Adjustments.
9.           The Plan may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan. Any amendment to the Plan will be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent it is applicable to this Agreement; however, except to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law, no amendment will adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent.
Amendments.
10.        . If one or more of the provisions of this Agreement is invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidated provisions shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions of this Agreement, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
Severability
11.         This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event of any inconsistent provisions between this Agreement and the Plan, the provisions of the Plan control. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement without definitions have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. References to Sections are to Sections of this Agreement unless otherwise noted.
Relation to Plan; Interpretation.
12.         Subject to Sections 2 and 3, the provisions of this Agreement shall be for the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the Grantee, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
Successors and Assigns.
13.         The laws of the State of Delaware govern the interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement.
Governing Law.
 
2
 
14.         Any notice to the Company provided for in this Agreement will be given to its Secretary at 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90024, and any notice to the Grantee will be addressed to the Grantee at his or her address currently on file with the Company. Any written notice will be deemed to be duly given when received if delivered personally or by courier service or sent by telecopy, e-mail, or the United States mail, first class registered mail, postage and fees prepaid, and addressed as provided in this paragraph. Any party may change the address to which notices are to be given by written notice to the other party as specified in the preceding sentence.
Notices.
15.         By accepting this award, the Grantee explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee's personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Company and its affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan. The Company holds or may receive from any agent designated by the Company certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, the Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in Occidental, details of this Restricted Stock award or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantee's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan, including complying with applicable tax and securities laws ("Data"). Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. These recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere, and may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country. By accepting this Agreement, the Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes described above. The Grantee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting the Administrator in writing. Refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Grantee's ability to participate in the Plan.
Privacy Rights.
16.         The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to this Restricted Stock award granted under the Plan or future awards that may be granted under the Plan (if any) by electronic means or to request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery.
17.         By accepting this award, the Grantee acknowledges that the Grantee has read this Agreement and understands that the future value of any Common shares issued pursuant to this Restricted Stock award cannot be predicted and Occidental does not assume liability in the event such Common Shares have no value in the future; and the Grantee will be solely responsible for the payment or nonpayment of taxes imposed or threatened to be imposed by any authority of any jurisdiction.
Grantee's Representations and Releases.
 
In consideration of the grant of this Restricted Stock award, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of this Restricted Stock award or diminution in value of this Restricted Stock award or Common Shares issued pursuant
 
3
 
to this Restricted Stock award resulting from termination of the Grantee's service as a member of the Board and the Grantee irrevocably releases the Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting this Agreement, the Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim.
 
, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer and Grantee has also executed this Agreement in duplicate, as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned Grantee hereby (i) acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Agreement and a copy of the Memorandum, dated ___________, and (ii) accepts the right to receive the Common Stock or other securities covered hereby, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
 
Grantee
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
OCCIDENTAL
PETROELUM
CORPORATION
NON-EMPLOYEE
DIRECTOR
ANNUAL
RETAINER
AND
ATTENDANCE
FEES
 
Effective with the Board term commencing after the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, each non-employee director of Occidental Petroleum Corporation will be paid a retainer of $60,000 per year, plus $2,000 for each meeting of the Board of Directors or of its committees he or she attends, in person or by means of telephone, video or internet conference. Directors who are elected to fill a vacancy will receive a pro rata portion of the annual retainer based on the number of regular meetings remaining in the term.
 
 
 
 
 


