FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20060223093041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a presentation made by Dr. Ray R. Irani, Occidental Petroleum Corporation's Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Stephen I. Chazen, Occidental's Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, John W. Morgan, President of Oxy Oil and Gas  Western Hemisphere, and R. Casey Olson, President of Oxy Oil and Gas  Eastern Hemisphere, at an analyst conference on February 23, 2006, at the St. Regis Hotel in New York, New York.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01.
Other Events
     On February 23, 2006, Occidental issued a press release regarding the analyst conference and a press release announcing that in 2005 its proved reserve additions exceeded production. The full text of the each press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements in this presentation that contain words such as "will," "expect" or "estimate," or otherwise relate to the future, are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: exploration risks such as drilling of unsuccessful wells, global commodity pricing fluctuations and supply/demand considerations for oil, gas and chemicals; higher than expected costs; political risks; changes in tax rates; unrealized acquisition benefits or higher than expected integration costs; and not successfully completing (or any material delay in) any expansion, capital expenditure, acquisition or disposition. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this presentation. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and natural gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use certain terms in this presentation, such as probable, possible and recoverable reserves and oil in place, that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in filings with the SEC. Additionally, the SEC requires oil and natural gas companies, in their filings, to disclose non-financial statistical information about their consolidated entities separately from such information about their equity holdings and not to show combined totals. Certain information in this presentation is shown on a combined basis; however, the information is disclosed separately in the Appendix. U.S investors are urged to consider carefully the disclosure in our Form 10-K, available through 1-888-699-7383 or at . You also can obtain a copy from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
www.oxy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 16
Costs and Results of Oil and Gas Producing Activities
     Capitalized costs relating to oil and gas producing activities and related accumulated DD&A were as follows:
 
 
     Costs incurred in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalized or expensed, were as follows:
 
 
     The results of operations of Occidental's oil and gas producing activities, which exclude oil and gas trading activities and items such as asset dispositions, corporate overhead, interest and royalties, were as follows:
 
 
(Unaudited)
Results per Unit of Production
 
 
(Unaudited)
Supplemental Oil and Gas Information
     The following tables set forth Occidental's net interests in quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, condensate and natural gas and changes in such quantities. Crude oil reserves (in millions of barrels) include condensate. The reserves are stated after applicable royalties. These estimates include reserves in which Occidental holds an economic interest under PSCs and other economic arrangements.
     The reserve estimation process involves reservoir engineers, geoscientists, planning engineers and financial analysts. As part of this process, all reserve volumes are estimated by a forecast of production rates, operating costs and capital expenditures. Price differentials between benchmark prices and prices realized and specifics of each operating agreement are then used to estimate the net reserves. Production rate forecasts are derived by a number of methods, including estimates from decline curve analyses, material balance calculations that take into account the volume of substances replacing the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, or computer simulation of the reservoir performance. Operating costs and capital costs are forecast based on past experience combined with expectations of future cost for the specific reservoirs. In many cases, activity-based cost models for a reservoir are utilized to project operating costs as production rates and the number of wells for production and injection vary.
     A senior corporate officer of Occidental is responsible for the internal audit and review of its oil and gas reserves data. In addition, a Corporate Reserves Review Committee (the Reserves Committee) has been established, consisting of senior corporate officers, to monitor and review Occidental's oil and gas reserves. The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee of Occidental's Board of Directors periodically throughout the year. Occidental retained Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott), independent petroleum engineering consultants, to review its oil and gas estimation processes for 2004 and 2005.
     Ryder Scott has compared Occidental's methods and procedures for estimating oil and gas reserves to generally accepted industry standards and has reviewed certain data, methods and procedures used in estimating reserve volumes, economic evaluations and reserve classifications. Ryder Scott then reviewed the specific application of such methods and procedures for a selection of oil and gas fields considered to be a valid representation of Occidental's total reserves portfolio.
     Based on this review, including the data, technical processes and interpretations presented by Occidental, Ryder Scott has concluded that the methodologies used by Occidental in preparing the relevant estimates generally comply with current Securities and Exchange Commission standards. Ryder Scott has not been engaged to render an opinion as to the reserves volumes presented by Occidental.
     Estimates of proven reserves are collected in a database and changes in this database are reviewed by engineering personnel to ensure accuracy. Finally, reserve volumes and changes are reviewed and approved by Occidental's senior management.
 
In millions of barrels
Oil Reserves
 
 
In billions of cubic feet
Gas Reserves
 
(a)      All Middle East/North Africa reserves are related to PSCs.
(b)      Production excludes 12.7 bcf subject to volumetric production payments for 2003.
(c)      Approximately two percent of the proved developed reserves at December 31, 2005 are nonproducing. Plans are to begin producing these reserves in 2006.
 
Standardized Measure, Including Year-to-Year Changes Therein, of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
     For purposes of the following disclosures, estimates were made of quantities of proved reserves and the periods during which they are expected to be produced. Future cash flows were computed by applying year-end prices to Occidental's share of estimated annual future production from proved oil and gas reserves, net of royalties. Future development and production costs were computed by applying year-end costs to be incurred in producing and further developing the proved reserves. Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits, allowances and foreign income repatriation considerations) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash flows. The discount was computed by application of a 10 percent discount factor. The calculations assumed the continuation of existing economic, operating and contractual conditions at each of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. However, such arbitrary assumptions have not necessarily proven to be the case in the past. Other assumptions of equal validity would give rise to substantially different results.
     The year-end prices used to calculate future cash flows vary by producing area and market conditions. For the 2005, 2004 and 2003 disclosures, the West Texas Intermediate oil prices used were $61.04 per barrel, $43.45 per barrel and $32.52 per barrel, respectively. The Henry Hub gas prices used for the 2005, 2004 and 2003 disclosures were $10.08/MMBtu, $6.03/MMBtu and $5.79/MMBtu, respectively.
In millions
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
 
 
In millions
Changes in the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future
Net Cash Flows From Proved Reserve Quantities
 
Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs of Oil and Gas
     The following table sets forth, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, Occidental's approximate average sales prices and average production costs of oil and gas. Production costs are the costs incurred in lifting the oil and gas to the surface and include gathering, treating, primary processing, field storage, property taxes and insurance on proved properties, but do not include depreciation, depletion and amortization, royalties, income taxes, interest, general and administrative and other expenses.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
For Immediate Release: February 23, 2006
     LOS ANGELES - Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: OXY) today announced its 2006-2010 growth plan at a meeting with financial analysts in New York.
     Occidental's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ray R. Irani, told the analysts, "We have an attractive pipeline of short-term and medium-term projects with a portfolio of high quality assets that will keep our combined oil and gas production growing at a sustainable annual rate of at least 5 percent, and possibly 7 percent. Equally important, we are committed to maintaining the disciplined execution of our capital program in funding these projects in order to keep our financial returns solidly in the top quartile among our industry peers and retain our "A" credit rating."
     Occidental emphasized that the company's base production outlook for 2010 of at least 700,000, and possibly 785,000, equivalent barrels of oil per day, was based on projects already in hand and did not depend on new exploration success, new enhanced oil recovery (EOR) projects or new acquisitions. Growth will come from the company's Argentina assets that were recently acquired from Vintage Petroleum, the giant Dolphin gas project in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, the Mukhaizna EOR project in Oman, and Libya. The company also expects to grow its California production through a combination of the primary drilling and EOR projects at its Elk Hills operation and by increasing production from former Vintage properties in southern California. The company also has a large inventory of EOR projects in the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico where it expects to offset moderate decline rates and keep production stable.
     In addition, Occidental discussed a number of new growth opportunities in its core operating areas that could increase production in 2010 to between 805,000 and 950,000 equivalent
 
barrels per day, for a potential annual growth rate at midpoint of approximately 10 percent over five years.
     Occidental also reaffirmed its plan to repurchase 10 million shares. The company also said it expects to buy back an additional 20 million shares over the intermediate term from free cash flow and the proceeds from Vintage asset sales.
     "If oil prices remain above $50 per barrel, we will generate significant free cash flow in excess of what is required to sustain growth of 5 to 7 percent," said Dr. Irani. "The extra cash will be used to increase our growth rate and to buy back shares. Our preference is to grow the business at a faster rate, but if the new projects we are currently considering encounter timing delays or fail to measure up to our hurdle rates, we will use the excess cash to buy back additional shares. We will compare the potential for value creation of new projects with share repurchases and asset acquisitions and make decisions based on what will create the greatest value for our shareholders over the long haul."
     Dr. Irani also pledged that the company would remain focused on the fundamentals of the business, including optimizing profits and free cash flow per equivalent barrel, keeping finding and development costs in the top quartile, growing oil and gas reserves at a rate well in excess of production and maintaining financial discipline. "Focusing on these fundamentals," Dr. Irani stressed, "should keep our returns on equity and capital employed in the top quartile  and ultimately generate top quartile total returns for our stockholders."
Statements in this release that contain words such as "will," "expect" or "estimate," or otherwise relate to the future, are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: exploration risks such as drilling of unsuccessful wells; global commodity pricing fluctuations and supply/demand considerations
 
for oil, gas and chemicals; higher-than-expected costs; political risk; changes in tax rates; unrealized acquisition benefits or higher than expected integration costs; and not successfully completing (or any material delay in) any expansion, capital expenditure, acquisition, or disposition. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this release. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. U.S. investors are urged to consider carefully the disclosure in our Form 10-K, available through the following toll-free telephone number, 1-888-OXYPETE (1-888-699-7383) or on the Internet at . You also can obtain a copy from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
http://www.oxy.com

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
For Immediate Release: February 23, 2006
     LOS ANGELES  Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: OXY) announced today that in 2005 the company's consolidated subsidiaries had proved reserve additions from all sources of 380 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) compared to production of 199 million BOE, for a production replacement rate of 191 percent. Occidental incurred $4.37 billion in costs for oil and gas property acquisitions and exploration and development activities. At the end of 2005, Occidental's consolidated reserves-to-production ratio, assuming production remained at the 2005 level, was 13.4 years.
     At year-end 2005, Occidental's worldwide proved reserves, on a consolidated basis, totaled 2.66 billion BOE compared to 2.49 billion BOE at the end of 2004. Following the closing of the acquisition of Vintage Petroleum in January 2006, consolidated pro-forma proved reserves, excluding 72 million BOE of Vintage reserves held for sale, were 3.01 billion BOE.
     The breakdown by category of the 2005 consolidated proved reserve additions shows improved recovery added 139 million BOE (37%), extensions and discoveries added 123 million BOE (32%), revisions to previous estimates reduced 21 million BOE (-6%), and acquisitions added 139 million BOE (37%).
     For the three-year period, 2003-2005, Occidental's consolidated reserve additions totaled 997 million BOE, and total production equaled 587 million BOE, for a reserve replacement rate of 170 percent. Over the three years, Occidental incurred $7.73 billion in costs for property acquisitions and exploration and development activities.
     Occidental also had investments in other interests that recorded 10 million BOE of proved reserve additions in 2005 compared to production of 8 million BOE. These investment interests accounted for 45 million BOE of proved reserves at year-end 2005, compared to 43 million BOE at the end of 2004.
     During 2003-2005, proved reserve additions from the other interests were 30 million BOE, and production totaled 27 million BOE. During this three-year period, the costs incurred for these investment interests for property acquisitions and exploration and development activities totaled $20 million.
 
     Statements in this release that contain words such as "will," "expect" or "estimate," or otherwise relate to the future, are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: exploration risks such as drilling of unsuccessful wells, global commodity pricing fluctuations and supply/demand considerations for oil, gas and chemicals; higher than expected costs; political risks; changes in tax rates; unrealized acquisition benefits or higher than expected integration costs; and not successfully completing (or any material delay in) any expansion, capital expenditure, acquisition or disposition. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this release. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and natural gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use certain terms in this release, such as probable, possible and recoverable reserves, pro-forma reserves and oil in place, that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from using in filings with the SEC. Additionally, the SEC requires oil and natural gas companies, in their filings, to disclose non-financial statistical information about their consolidated entities separately from such information about their equity holdings and not to show combined totals. Certain information in this release is given on a combined basis; however, the information is disclosed separately in this release. U.S investors are urged to consider carefully the disclosure in our Form 10-K, available through 1-888-699-7383 or at . You also can obtain a copy from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
www.oxy.com
 
The following table sets forth Occidental's net interests in quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, condensate and natural gas, and changes in such quantities. Crude oil reserves (in millions of barrels) include condensate. Natural gas volumes (in billion cubic feet) have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) based on energy content of 6,000 cubic feet of gas to one barrel of oil.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
 
 
Occidental's 2005, 2004 and 2003 costs incurred in oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalized or expensed, were as follows:
COSTS INCURRED
 
 
PROVED RESERVE ADDITIONS
Revisions of Previous Estimates
In 2005, Occidental had net negative revisions of its proved reserves of 26 million BOE due to changes in price. The decrease was mainly due to negative revisions of 52 million BOE from the Dolphin Project, Qatar, Oman and Yemen where reserve amounts decrease when prices rise. These revisions were partially offset by positive revisions at domestic operations in Elk Hills and the Permian Basin. If oil prices increase, less oil volume is required to recover costs, and production sharing contracts would reduce Occidental's share of proved reserves. Oil price changes would also tend to affect the economic lives of proved reserves from other contracts, in a manner partially offsetting the PSC reserve volume changes.
Improved Recovery
In 2005, Occidental added reserves of 139 million BOE through improved recovery, mainly in the Permian Basin, Elk Hills field, and Long Beach in the United States and also in Qatar. In an effort to partially mitigate the decline in oil and gas production from the Elk Hills field, Occidental has successfully implemented an infill drilling program. The Elk Hills operations employ both gas flood and water flood techniques. In the Permian Basin, the increased reserves were primarily attributable to enhanced recovery techniques, such as drilling additional CO flood and water flood wells.
2
Extensions and Discoveries
Occidental obtains reserve additions from extensions which are dependent on successful exploitation programs. In 2005, Occidental added reserves of 123 million BOE, with 23 million BOE in the United States and 91 million BOE in the Middle East. In western Colorado, Occidental added approximately 9 million BOE from the extension of gas reserves to proved locations, most of which will require additional development capital.
Purchases of Proved Reserves
In 2005, Occidental purchased reserves of 139 million BOE, of which 135 million BOE are in the United States. The reserve additions in the United States were from various acquisitions, primarily in the Permian Basin, of which 71 percent were proved developed reserves. Occidental continues to add reserves through acquisitions when properties are available at reasonable prices.
PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES
In 2005, Occidental's proved undeveloped reserves increased by 148 million BOE. This net increase resulted from improved recovery, extensions, discoveries and purchases, primarily in the Elk Hills field, in the Permian Basin, in western Colorado and in the Dolphin Project. The Dolphin project was 63 percent of the 2005 increase, and the projected start-up for Dolphin production is late 2006. These proved undeveloped additions were partially offset by reserve transfers to the proved developed category as a result of 2005 development programs.


