FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20060721135734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) und er the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 1
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 19, 2006, Occidental Petroleum Corporation awarded Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units with payout based on the attainment of a minimum Return on Equity at the end of a three year Performance Period. The awards provide for the payout of from 0% to 200% of the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units as specified in Exhibit 1 to the form of grant agreement. The form of grant agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. During the Performance Period, the recipients accrue dividend equivalents on the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units payable at the end of the Performance Period if the award vests.
Section 5
Item 5.03
 
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On July 20, 2006, Occidental Petroleum Corporation amended its By-laws, to provide that in an uncontested election, any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "against" his or her election than votes "for" such election must promptly tender his or her resignation. The By-laws as so amended are filed as Exhibit  3.(ii) to this Form 8-K.
Section 8
Item 8.01
 
Other Events
On July 20, 2006, Occidental Petroleum Corporation announced:
(a)    a cash dividend in the increased amount of $0.44 per share of common stock on a pre-split basis payable on October 15, 2006 to holders of record as of September 8, 2006,
(b)    a 2-for-1 common stock split to be paid in the form of a stock dividend to be distributed on August 15, 2006 to holders of record as of August 1, 2006, and
(c)    an increase in the number of shares authorized under its share repurchase program to 20 million pre-split shares.
A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  
Exhibits
 
 
1
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 2005 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
 
These (these "Terms and Conditions") are set forth as of the Date of Grant between OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("Occidental") and, with its subsidiaries, (the "Company"), and Grantee.
Terms and Conditions
.  In accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Plan"), Occidental grants to the Grantee as of the Date of Grant the right to receive in Common Shares up to 200% of the number of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units.  For the purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units" means a bookkeeping entry that records the equivalent of Common Shares awarded pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Plan that is payable upon the achievement of the Performance Goals.  Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units are not Common Shares and have no voting rights or, except as stated in Section 6, dividend rights.
1.
            
GRANT OF TARGET PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS
  Neither these Terms and Conditions nor any right to receive Common Shares or  dividend equivalents in the form of cash pursuant to these Terms and Conditions may be transferred or assigned by the Grantee other than (i) to a beneficiary designated on a form approved by the Company (if permitted by local law), by will or, if the Grantee dies without designating a beneficiary, by the laws of descent and distribution, or (ii) pursuant to a domestic relations order, if applicable, (if approved or ratified by the Administrator).
2.
            
.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER
  The Performance Goal for the Performance Period is based on the attainment of at least a minimum Return on Equity, as set forth on Exhibit 1.  Return on Equity for the purposes of Exhibit 1 shall be calculated (i) for each quarter in the three-year period ended June 30, 2009 by dividing the Company's Net Income (as defined in the Plan) for each such quarterly period by the stockholder equity as of the end of such quarter, in each case as reported in the financial statements of the Company and (ii) adding together the calculated result for each of the 12 quarters.
3.
            
.
PERFORMANCE GOALS
.  (a) The Grantee must remain in the continuous employ of the Company through the last day of the Performance Period to receive payment of this award.  The continuous employment of the Grantee will not be deemed to have been interrupted by reason of the transfer of the Grantee's employment among the Company and its affiliates or an approved leave of absence.  However, if, prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Grantee dies or becomes permanently
4.
            
VESTING AND FORFEITURE OF TARGET PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS
disabled while in the employ of the Company, retires with the consent of the Company, or terminates employment for the convenience of the Company (each of the foregoing, a "Forfeiture Event"), then the number of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units upon which the Grantee's award is based will be reduced on a pro rata basis based upon the number of days remaining in the Performance Period following the date of the Forfeiture Event.
(b)  The Grantee's right to receive payment of this award in an amount not to exceed 200% of the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units, rounded up to the nearest whole share, and to receive the Dividend Equivalents (as defined in Paragraph 6 of these Terms and Conditions) with respect thereto will be based and become nonforfeitable upon the Administrator's certification of the attainment of the Performance Goals.
(c)  Notwithstanding Section 4(b), if a Change in Control Event occurs prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Grantee's right to receive Common Shares equal to the number of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units (as adjusted for any Forfeiture Event pursuant to Section 4(a)) and to receive the Dividend Equivalents with respect thereto will become nonforfeitable.
5..  Up to and including 200% of the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units as adjusted pursuant to Sections 4 and 7 of these Terms and Conditions will be settled in Common Shares.  The Common Shares covered by these Terms and Conditions or any prorated portion thereof shall be issued to the Grantee as promptly as practicable after the Administrator's certification of the attainment of the Performance Goal or the Change in Control Event, as the case may be.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee may elect pursuant to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Stock Program to defer receipt of any Common Shares to which Grantee may be entitled following certification of the attainment of the Performance Goal.  This deferral election shall be separate from any deferral election that the Grantee may make regarding Dividend Equivalents.
             PAYMENT OF AWARDS; ELECTIVE DEFERRAL
.  With respect to the number of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units listed above, the Grantee will be credited on the books and records of Occidental with an amount (the "Dividend Equivalent") equal to the amount per share of any cash dividends declared by the Board on the outstanding Common Shares during the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending with respect to any portion of the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units covered by these Terms and Conditions on the date on which the Grantee's right to receive such portion becomes nonforfeitable, or, if earlier, the date on which the Grantee forfeits the right to receive such portion.  Occidental will pay in cash to the Grantee an amount equal to the Dividend Equivalents credited to such Grantee adjusted, if appropriate, to reflect the same payment percentage that is used to determine the payment of the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units following certification of the attainment of the Performance Goal, as promptly as may be practicable following such certification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee may elect pursuant to the Occidental Petroleum Corporation 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan to defer receipt of any Dividend Equivalents to which Grantee may be entitled following certification of the attainment of the Performance Goal. This deferral election shall be separate from any deferral election that the Grantee may make regarding Performance-Based Restricted Share Units.
6.            
CREDITING AND PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS; ELECTIVE DEFERRAL
.  (a)   The number or kind of shares of stock covered by these Terms and Conditions may be adjusted as the Administrator determines pursuant to Section 6.2 of the Plan in order to prevent dilution or expansion of the Grantee's rights under these Terms and
7.            
ADJUSTMENTS
2
Conditions as a result of events such as stock dividends, stock splits or other changes in the capital structure of Occidental, or any merger, consolidation, spin-off, liquidation or other corporate transaction having a similar effect.  If any such adjustment occurs, the Company will give the Grantee written notice of the adjustment.
(b)   In addition, the Administrator may adjust the Performance Goal or other features of this Grant as permitted by Section 5.2.3 of the Plan.
8.  Nothing in these Terms and Conditions confers upon the Grantee any right with respect to continued employment by the Company, nor limits in any manner the right of the Company to terminate the employment or adjust the compensation of the Grantee.
             NO EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT.
9.               The Grantee is responsible for any federal, state, local or foreign tax, including income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding with respect to the grant of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units (including the grant, the vesting, the receipt of Common Shares, the sale of Common Shares and the receipt of dividends or dividend equivalents, if any).  If the Company must withhold any tax in connection with the issuance of any Common Shares or the payment of any other consideration pursuant to the grant of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units, (including the payment of Dividend Equivalents), the Grantee shall satisfy all or any part of any such withholding obligation first from any cash amount payable under these Terms and Conditions, and second, by surrendering to the Company a portion of the Common Shares that are issued or transferred to the Grantee pursuant to these Terms and Conditions.  Any Common Shares so surrendered by the Grantee shall be credited against the Grantee's withholding obligation at their certification date value.  If the Company must withhold any tax in connection with granting or vesting of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units (including those for which receipt of the payout is deferred under a company-sponsored stock deferral program) or the accrual or vesting of Dividend Equivalents pursuant to this grant of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units (including those for which receipt of the payout is deferred under a company-sponsored deferral program for cash), the Grantee by acknowledging these Terms and Conditions agrees that, so long as the Grantee is an employee of the Company for tax purposes, all or any part of any such withholding obligation shall be deducted from the Grantee's wages or other cash compensation (including regular pay).  The Grantee shall pay to the Company any amount that cannot be satisfied in a timely manner by the means described in the previous sentence.
.
TAXES AND WITHHOLDING
10.   The Company will make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal, state and foreign securities laws; however, the Company will not issue any Common Shares or other securities pursuant to these Terms and Conditions if their issuance would result in a violation of any such law.
          COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
Additionally, the Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses or long-service awards.  This grant of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share
11.  The benefits received by the Grantee under these Terms and Conditions will not be taken into account in determining any benefits to which the Grantee may be entitled under any profit sharing, retirement or other benefit or compensation plan maintained by the Company, including the amount of any life insurance coverage available to any beneficiary of the Grantee under any life insurance plan covering employees of the Company. 
           RELATION TO OTHER BENEFITS.
3
Units does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units, or benefits in lieu of Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units even if Grantee has a history of receiving Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Units or other stock awards.
12.  The Plan may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan.  Any amendment to the Plan will be deemed to be an amendment to these Terms and Conditions to the extent it is applicable to these Terms and Conditions; however, no amendment will adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under these Terms and Conditions without the Grantee's consent.
           AMENDMENTS.
13.  If one or more of the provisions of these Terms and Conditions is invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidated provisions shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions of these Terms and Conditions, and the remaining provisions of these Terms and Conditions will continue to be valid and fully enforceable.
           SEVERABILITY.
14.  These Terms and Conditions are subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.  In the event of any inconsistent provisions between these Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the provisions of the Plan control.  Capitalized terms used in these Terms and Conditions without definition have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan.  References to Sections are to Sections of these Terms and Conditions unless otherwise noted.
           RELATION TO PLAN; INTERPRETATION.
15.  Subject to Sections 2 and 4, the provisions of these Terms and Conditions shall be for the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the Grantee, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
           SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
16.  The laws of the State of Delaware govern the interpretation, performance, and enforcement of these Terms and Conditions.
           GOVERNING LAW.
           By accepting this award, the Grantee explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee's personal data as described in these Terms and Conditions by and among, as applicable, the Company and its affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee's participation in the Plan.  The Company holds or may receive from any agent designated by the Company certain personal information about the Grantee, including, but not limited to, the Grantee's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in Occidental, details of this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantee's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan, including complying with applicable tax and securities laws ("Data"). Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  These recipients may be located in the Grantee's country or elsewhere, and may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee's country.   By accepting these Terms and Conditions, the Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes described above.  The Grantee may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or
17.
. 
PRIVACY RIGHTS
4
withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting the Administrator in writing. Refusing or withdrawing consent may affect the Grantee's ability to participate in the Plan.
             The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award granted under the Plan or future awards that may be granted under the Plan (if any) by electronic means or to request the Grantee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  The Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
18.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY.
           By accepting this award, the Grantee acknowledges that the Grantee has read these Terms and Conditions and understands that (i) the grant of this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award is made voluntarily by Occidental in its discretion with no liability on the part of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries and that, if the Grantee is not an employee of Occidental, the Grantee is not, and will not be considered, an employee of Occidental but the Grantee is a third party (employee of a subsidiary) to whom this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award is granted; (ii) the Grantee's participation in the Plan is voluntary; (iii) the future value of any Common shares issued pursuant to this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award cannot be predicted and Occidental does not assume liability in the event such Common Shares have no value in the future; and (iv) subject to the terms of any tax equalization agreement between the Grantee and the entity employing the Grantee, the Grantee will be solely responsible for the payment or nonpayment of taxes imposed or threatened to be imposed by any authority of any jurisdiction.
19.
GRANTEE'S REPRESENTATIONS AND RELEASES.
notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting these Terms and Conditions, the Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim.
if,
In consideration of the grant of this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award or diminution in value of this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award or Common Shares issued pursuant to this Target Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit award resulting from termination of the Grantee's employment by the Company (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Grantee irrevocably releases the Company from any such claim that may arise;
5
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
EXHIBIT 1 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
*  Payouts for Return on Equity for other values will be interpolated in the Committee's discretion
 
6

Exhibit 3.(ii)
[As Amended July 20, 2006]
SECTION 1.  .  The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the State of Delaware.
Registered Office
SECTION 2.  The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices. 
SECTION 1.  Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for the transaction of only such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-laws shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.  The Chairman of such meetings shall have plenary power and authority with respect to all matters relating to the conduct thereof including, without limitation, the authority to limit the amount of time which may be taken by any stockholder or stockholders, the authority to appoint and be advised by a parliamentarian, and the authority to appoint and to instruct a sergeant or sergeants at arms.
Place and Conduct of Meetings. 
SECTION 2.  The Annual Meetings of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of only such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-laws.
Annual Meetings. 
To be properly brought before the Annual Meeting, business must be either (a) specified in the notice of Annual Meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the Annual Meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the Annual Meeting by a stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this and on the record date for the determination of
Section 2
stockholders entitled to vote at such Annual Meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this .
Section 2
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an Annual Meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the Annual Meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made, whichever first occurs.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an Annual Meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed to and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not less than seventy (70) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding Annual Meeting; that in the event that the Annual Meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
provided, however,
th
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the Annual Meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the Annual Meeting and any material interest in such business of the stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (ii) the name and record address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class, series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with such business, (v) whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to distribute proxy materials, and (vi) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear, in person or by another person authorized in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to act as proxy for the stockholder, at the Annual Meeting to present such business.
Notwithstanding anything in the By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the Annual Meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this that nothing in this shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the Annual Meeting.
Section 2; provided, however,
Section 2
The Chairman of an Annual Meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the Annual Meeting that business was not properly brought before the Annual Meeting in accordance with the provisions of this , and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the Annual Meeting and any such business not properly brought before the Annual Meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 2
Written notice of the Annual Meeting stating the place, date and hour of the Annual Meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting.
SECTION 3.    Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called
Special Meetings.
2
by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.  Written notice of a Special Meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting.
SECTION 4.  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business.  If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Quorum. 
SECTION 5.  Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or by proxy at the meeting for the purposes of determining the presence of a quorum at such meeting.  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period.  No vote at any meeting of stockholders need be by written ballot unless the Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at the meeting, in his discretion, specifically directs the use of a written ballot.
Voting. 
SECTION 6.  The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.  The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote. 
SECTION 7.  The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by 6 of this or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Stock Ledger. 
Section
Article II
SECTION 8.  The corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and
Voting Procedures and Inspectors of Election. 
3
make a written report thereof.  The corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their count of all votes and ballots.  The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting.
SECTION 1.  Subject to the rights, if any, of holders of preferred stock issued by the Corporation to elect directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors shall consist of one or more directors, the number of which shall be eleven (11) until changed by resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors from time to time.  Except as provided in of this Article, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at Annual Meetings of Stockholders, and, subject to of this Article, each director so elected shall hold office until his successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, disqualification, resignation or removal.  No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation who shall have reached the age of seventy-five (75) at the date of such election, unless such requirement shall have been unanimously waived by the members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and such Committee's action shall have been ratified and approved by a majority of the disinterested directors on the Board of Directors.  Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Election of Directors.
Section 3
III
Section 12
III
SECTION 2.  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at any Annual Meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this .
Nominations of Directors. 
Section 2
Section 2
4
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation between September 1 and November 30 of the year preceding the Annual Meeting. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person, and (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to distribute proxy materials, (v) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear, in person or by another person authorized in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to act as proxy for the stockholder, at the Annual Meeting to nominate the persons named in the stockholder's notice, and (vi) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this .  If the Chairman of the Annual Meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 2
SECTION 3.  Any newly created directorship resulting from an increase in the number of directors or any other vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.  Any director elected to fill a newly created directorship resulting from an increase in the number of directors or any other vacancy shall hold office for a term that shall  expire at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Vacancies. 
SECTION 4.  The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers. 
5
SECTION 5.  The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, or any three directors.  Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, telegram or telecopy on twenty-four hours notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Meetings. 
SECTION 6.  Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, at all meetings of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof, a majority of the members of the entire Board of Directors or of the said committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; and the act of a majority of the directors or members of the committee present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or of the said committee, as the case may be.  A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors or members of the committee if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.  If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof, the directors or members of the committee present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum. 
SECTION 7.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of Board. 
SECTION 8.  Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this 8 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone. 
Section
SECTION 9.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member.  Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation.  Meetings of any committee may
Committees. 
6
be called by the Chairman of such committee, if there be one, or by any two members thereof other than such Chairman.  Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each member by mail not less than forty-eight hours before the date of the meeting; by telephone, telegram or telecopy on twenty-four hours notice; or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.  Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
SECTION 10.  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and/or a stated annual fee as a director.  No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.  Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Compensation. 
SECTION 11.  No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders.  Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Interested Directors. 
SECTION 12.  .  In an uncontested election, any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "against" his or her election than votes "for" such election (a "Majority Against Vote") shall promptly tender his or her resignation following certification of the stockholder vote by the Inspector of Elections.
Resignation of Directors
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall promptly consider the resignation, and possible responses based on the relevant facts and circumstances (including, for example and not by way of limitation, the reason for the Majority Against Vote, the director's qualifications and role on the Board of Directors) and whether acceptance of the resignation is in the best interest of the Corporation) and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation within 90 days following certification of the stockholder vote by the Inspector of Elections.  Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation or Board of Directors' action regarding whether to accept the resignation.  If each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee received a Majority Against Vote at the same election, then
7
the independent directors who did not receive a Majority Against Vote shall appoint a committee amongst themselves to consider the resignations and recommend to the Board of Directors whether to accept them.  However, if the only directors who did not receive a Majority Against Vote in the same election constitute three or fewer directors, all directors may participate in the action regarding whether to accept the resignations.
The Board of Directors will promptly disclose its decision-making process and decision regarding whether to accept or reject the director's resignation in a Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Notwithstanding the obligation to offer to resign for a Majority Against Vote, any director may resign at any time for any other reason.  In such instance, the resignation shall be effective upon giving written notice to the Corporate Secretary, unless the notice specifies a later time for such resignation to become effective, and no action shall be required by the Board of Directors for the resignation to become effective.  If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the Board of Directors may elect a successor prior to such effective time to take office when such resignation becomes effective.
SECTION 1.  The officers of this Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board, who shall be the Chief Executive Officer, any number of Vice Chairmen, a President, a Senior Operating Officer, any number of Executive Vice Presidents, one or more of whom may be designated Senior Executive Vice President, any number of Vice Presidents with such rank as the Board of Directors may designate, a Secretary, any number of Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer, and any number of Assistant Treasurers.  One of such Executive Vice Presidents or Vice Presidents shall be designated Chief Financial Officer and shall have responsibility, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President, for the management of the Corporation's financial affairs.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws.  The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
General.
SECTION 2.  The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal.  Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors.  Any vacancy occurring in an office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Election. 
8
SECTION 3.  The Board of Directors shall have the power to fix and determine the salaries and other remuneration, and the terms and conditions thereof, of all executive officers of the Corporation.
Remuneration. 
SECTION 4.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any, shall have general and active management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, shall have plenary power to issue orders and instructions to all officers and employees of the Corporation, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, if any, are carried into effect.  He shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and except where by law the signature of the President is required, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall possess the power to enter into and sign all contracts, certificates and other instruments of the Corporation, and shall have the power to delegate any portion of his authority under these By-laws to any other officer of the Corporation.  During the absence or disability of the President, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the President.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these By-laws or by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
SECTION 5.  The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors, if there is more than one (in the order designated by the Board of Directors), shall perform such duties and may exercise such powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors. 
SECTION 6.  The President shall perform such duties and have such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board may from time to time prescribe.  In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if there be none, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors.  If there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.  The President shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these By-laws, by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
President. 
SECTION 7.  The Senior Operating Officer shall perform such duties and have such powers as are prescribed for Executive Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents under these By-laws and under any resolution of the Board of Directors and shall perform such additional duties and have such additional powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.  The Senior Operating Officer shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these By-laws, by the Board of Directors, or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Senior Operating Officer. 
SECTION 8.  At the request of the President or in his absence or in the event of his inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors), the Executive Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents (in the order designated by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President.  Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of
Executive Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents. 
9
Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe.  If there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors and no Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who, in the absence of the President or in the event of the inability or refusal of the President to act, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President.
SECTION 9.  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees of the Board of Directors when required.  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors, under whose supervision he shall be.  If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given.  The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be any, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary.  The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature.  The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Secretary. 
SECTION 10.  Subject to the direction of the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chairman of the Board and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation.  If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
Treasurer. 
SECTION 11.  Except as may be otherwise provided in these By-laws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be any, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries. 
SECTION 12.  Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of
Assistant Treasurers. 
10
Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be any, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.  If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
SECTION 13.  Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers. 
SECTION 14.  The officers of divisions of the Corporation shall perform such duties and may exercise such powers as the Chairman of the Board may from time to time prescribe.
Officers of Divisions. 
 
11
SECTION 1.  Effective April 25, 2003, the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated.  Notwithstanding that the shares of Common Stock of the corporation shall be uncertificated, every holder of stock of any class or series in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President, an Executive Vice President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.
Uncertificated Shares. 
SECTION 2.  Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or (ii) a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures. 
SECTION 3.  The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in accordance with Section 1 of this Article V in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed.  When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Lost, Stolen
or
Destroyed Certificates. 
SECTION 4.  Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-laws.  Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation (i) in the case of uncertificated shares, only by the person named in the stock register of the Corporation, by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing by such person or by any other representative of such person acceptable to the Corporation, and (ii) in the case of shares registered in certificate form, only by the person named in the certificate, by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing by such person or by any other representative of such person acceptable to the Corporation and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be cancelled before a new certificate shall be issued in accordance with Section 1 of this Article V.
Transfers. 
SECTION 5.    In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty days nor
Record Date.
12
less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting, provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 6.  The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Beneficial Owners. 
SECTION 1.  Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail.  Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex or cable or by facsimile or other electronic transmission.  Notice given by any such means shall be deemed to have been given at the time delivered, sent or transmitted.
Notices. 
SECTION 2.  Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Waivers of Notice. 
SECTION 1.  Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock.  Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends. 
SECTION 2.  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements. 
SECTION 3.    The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year.
13
SECTION 4.    The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware".  The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal.
SECTION 5.  Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or such other officer or officers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board may designate, and any such officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation, in person or by proxy, to attend, and to act and vote at, any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold securities, and at any such meeting shall possess, and may exercise, any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities.
Stock Held by Corporation. 
14
SECTION 1.  Subject to of this the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful.  The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation. 
Section 3
Article VIII,
nolo contendere
SECTION 2.  Subject to of this the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation. 
Section 3
Article VIII,
SECTION 3.  Any indemnification under this (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in or of this as the case may be.  Such determination shall be made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders.  To the extent, however, that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense
Authorization of Indemnification. 
Article VIII
Section 1
Section 2
Article VIII,
15
of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in or of this or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Section 1
Section 2
Article VIII,
SECTION 4.  For purposes of any determination under of this a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, if his action is based on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information, opinions, reports or statements supplied to him by the officers or employees of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or by a committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports or statements made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant, by an appraiser or by another person selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation or another enterprise as to matters such person reasonably believes are within such certified public accountant's, appraiser's, or other person's professional or expert competence.  The term "another enterprise" as used in this shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent.  The provisions of this shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in or of this , as the case may be.
Good Faith Defined. 
Section 3
Article VIII,
Section 4
Section 4
Sections 1
2
Article VIII
SECTION 5.  Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under of this , and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director, officer, employee or agent may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under and of this   The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in or of this , as the case may be.  Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application.
Indemnification by a Court. 
Section 3
Article VIII
Sections 1
2
Article VIII.
Sections 1
2
Article VIII
Section 5
SECTION 6.  Expenses incurred in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this
Expenses Payable in Advance. 
Article VIII.
SECTION 7.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any By-law, agreement, contract, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while
Non-exclusivity and Survival of Indemnification. 
Article VIII
16
holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in and of this shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.  The provisions of this shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in or of this but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or otherwise.  The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person.
Sections 1
2
Article VIII
Article VIII
Sections 1
2
Article VIII
Article VIII
SECTION 8.  The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this
Insurance. 
Article VIII.
SECTION 9.  For purposes of this references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
Meaning of "Corporation" for Purposes of Article VIII. 
Article VIII,
Article VIII
17

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release: July 20, 2006
LOS ANGELES  Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: OXY) announced today that its Board of Directors has increased the quarterly dividend to $.44 per share of common stock on a pre-split basis, compared to the previous quarterly rate of $.36 per share.  The dividend will be payable on October 15, 2006 to all stockholders of record on September 8, 2006.  The Board also increased the number shares authorized for the previously announced share repurchase program to 20 million pre-split shares, leaving approximately 10 million pre-split shares to be repurchased from time to time in the open market or otherwise.  The share repurchases will continue to be funded solely from available cash from operations.  In addition, the Board authorized a two-for-one split of its common stock. The stock split will be payable on August 15, 2006 as a dividend of one share per each share held on the record date of August 1, 2006.
"The two-for-one stock split will make Occidental's stock more accessible to a broader range of investors," said Dr. Ray R. Irani, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  "The 22-percent increase in the quarterly dividend rate comes nine months after the last increase and is the fifth rate increase since 2002.  Since the share repurchase program was initiated last February, approximately 10 million shares have been repurchased through June 30.  The decisions to raise the dividend rate and to expand the share repurchase program are in keeping with our commitment to deliver top quartile total returns to our stockholders.  These decisions also reflect our confidence in the company's ability to continue delivering strong financial and operational results throughout the business cycle."
Statements in this release that contain words such as "will," "expect" or "estimate," or otherwise relate to the future, are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.  Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: exploration risks such as drilling of unsuccessful wells, global commodity pricing fluctuations and supply/demand considerations for oil, gas and chemicals; higher-than-expected costs; political risk; and not successfully completing (or any material delay in) any expansion, capital expenditure, acquisition, or disposition.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this filing. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  U.S. investors are urged to consider carefully the disclosure in Occidental's Form 10-K, available through the following toll-free telephone number, 1-888-OXYPETE (1-888-699-7383) or on the Internet at http://www.oxy.com. You also can obtain a copy from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Contacts:  Lawrence P. Meriage (media)            310-443-6562            Kenneth J. Huffman (investors)            212-603-8183            On the Web: www.oxy.com
 
2


