FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20090612130339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) June 12, 2009
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(310) 208-8800
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02(b).
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
As announced in March, R. Casey Olson, Executive Vice President of Occidental Petroleum Corporation and President, Oxy Oil and Gas, International, has elected to retire at year end. In connection with his retirement, Mr. Olson and the Company have entered into a retirement agreement dated June 12, 2009. Under this agreement, Mr. Olson will be available during 2010 to assist in matters relating to projects or events that occurred while he was employed; and, in addition to the retiree benefits generally available to all salaried employees, Mr. Olson will continue to receive his salary during 2010, and the cash value of the portion of his performance-based incentive awards forfeited as a result of his retirement, to the extent that payments are made on the non-forfeited portion of such awards at the end of the applicable performance period. A copy of the Retirement Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
.  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
1
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT (this ""), is entered into as of the Effective Date (as defined in Paragraph 1), by and between , a Delaware corporation (""), and R. Casey Olson (""), based upon the following:
Agreement
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
Occidental
Mr. Olson
 
 
In consideration of the mutual promises contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11
payment of the corresponding Forfeited Award would have been made following certification in February by the Committee of the performance level achieved by Occidental with respect to such PSA, but in no case before the date of such certification or later than December 31 of the applicable year.
 
Each such cash payment will equal:
 
the of:
product
 
 
 
Each such cash payment will equal:
 
the of:
product
 
 
 
Each such cash payment will equal:
 
the of:
product
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11
defined by Section 409A, and pursuant to any rules adopted for such purpose by Occidental's Board of Directors in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A, the parties will treat the transfer of such devices (and the payment of the related services) as being subject to the exception in regulation section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(D) (or any successor provision), to the extent that the transfer of such devices (or the payment of the related services) is taxable to him.
 
 
 
 
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor."
 
 
Page 6 of 11
Mr. Olson waives and relinquishes any rights and benefits that he has or may have against Occidental Releasees individually and collectively under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, or any similar applicable statute to the full extent permitted by law.
 
 
The arbitration will be conducted by a single arbitrator, in California, in accordance with the procedures required by the law of such state, and to the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, the following will govern arbitration hereunder:
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11
the amount of such payments in any other taxable year; (iii) a payment shall be made by the last day of Mr. Olson's taxable year following the taxable year in which the expense was incurred and (iv) Mr. Olson's right to payments by Occidental under this Paragraph 12(c) shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
 
 
 
Mr. Olson has the right to cancel and revoke this Agreement during the seven calendar days following the day on which he executes this Agreement as evidenced by the date beneath his signature. This Agreement shall not become effective, and no money or other consideration shall be paid hereunder, and no other Occidental duty hereunder will arise until the expiration of such seven-day period. In order to revoke this Agreement, Mr. Olson must deliver to Martin Cozyn, prior to the expiration of said seven-day period, a written notice of cancellation. In accordance with Paragraph 1, this Agreement shall take effect at 12:00 a.m. on the eighth day after Mr. Olson signs this Agreement, provided he has not revoked the Agreement.
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11
inclusion in gross income shall be deemed restricted or limited to the extent necessary to avoid such result.
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date set forth below.
 
Occidental
 
 
Martin A. Cozyn
Executive Vice President, Human Resources
 
 
R. Casey Olson
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11
ATTACHMENT A
Forfeited Awards
R. Casey Olson
Termination Date: 1/1/2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Does not include any Return on Equity Awards and/or Total Shareholder Return Incentive Awards that may be granted in July 2009.
 
 


