FILE:OXY/OXY-8K-20090327153321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) March 25, 2009
 
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(310) 208-8800
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
  
Item 5.02(b).
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 25, 2009, Occidental Petroleum Corporation announced the retirement of R. Casey Olson, Executive Vice President, and President, Oxy Oil and Gas, International. The full text of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
In a related development, Oxy announced on March 26, 2009 that Edward A. "Sandy" Lowe, a Vice President of Occidental Petroleum Corporation, has been named President, Oxy Oil and Gas - International Production for Occidental Oil and Gas Company. Mr. Lowe has been a senior member of Oxy's international team for over 10 years, and has more than 35 years of industry experience, including 24 years with Oxy in a number of engineering and project development leadership positions. His most recent position was Executive Vice President, Oxy Oil & Gas - International Production and Engineering.
 
Oxy's international business development activities will continue to be headquartered in Abu Dhabi and led by Rolf Monjo, Executive Vice President, Oxy Oil and Gas - International Business Development for Occidental Oil and Gas Company. The full text of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
.  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
1
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
2
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
For Immediate Release: Wednesday, March 25, 2009
R. Casey Olson, Executive Vice President and President, Oxy Oil and Gas - International, Announces Retirement
LOS ANGELES, March 25, 2009 -- Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: OXY) announced today that R. Casey Olson, Executive Vice President, and President of Oxy Oil and Gas - International, has elected to retire. Mr. Olson has been with the company for 12 years.
Commenting on Mr. Olson's retirement, Occidental Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ray R. Irani said, "Casey has advised me that he wishes to retire to pursue his long-standing interests in promoting educational opportunities for international students. Casey has been an important member of our international team and has made substantial contributions in many areas to the profitable growth of our oil and gas business. This is particularly true in the Middle East and North Africa where Oxy has added major new projects including Dolphin in Qatar and Abu Dhabi, as well as large-scale field developments in Oman, Bahrain, and Libya in recent years. We thank him for his leadership in these areas and wish him well in his retirement."
Between now and year-end, Mr. Olson will continue as an Occidental Petroleum Corporation Executive Vice President and assist in the completion of a number of pending projects. Occidental organizations currently reporting to Mr. Olson will be realigned within the company.
About Oxy
Occidental Petroleum Corporation is an international oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Middle East/North Africa and Latin America regions. Oxy is the fourth largest U.S. oil and gas company, based on equity market capitalization. Oxy's wholly owned subsidiary, OxyChem, manufactures and markets chlor-alkali
products and vinyls. Occidental is committed to safeguarding the environment, protecting the safety and health of employees and neighboring communities and upholding high standards of social responsibility in all of the company's worldwide operations.
-0-
 
 
2

EXHIBIT 99.2
For Immediate Release: March 26, 2009
Edward A. "Sandy" Lowe, Named President, Oxy Oil and Gas - International Production
LOS ANGELES, March 26, 2009  Occidental Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: OXY) announced today that Edward A. "Sandy" Lowe, a Vice President of Occidental Petroleum Corporation, has been named President, Oxy Oil and Gas - International Production.
Commenting on this appointment, Occidental Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ray R. Irani said, "Sandy has been a senior member of Oxy's international team for over 10 years. With the retirement of Casey Olson, I am confident in Sandy's ability to lead our international production activities and to continue Oxy's success in that arena."
Mr. Lowe has more than 35 years of industry experience, including 24 years with Oxy in a number of engineering and project development leadership positions. His most recent position was Executive Vice President, Oxy Oil & Gas  International Production and Engineering. He has served as Executive Vice President, Oxy Oil & Gas  Major Projects and as Executive Vice President and General Manager for Dolphin Energy Ltd. Mr. Lowe received his B.A. Degree in Civil Engineering from Tulane University.
Oxy's international business development efforts will continue to be headquartered in Abu Dhabi and led by Rolf Monjo, Executive Vice President, International Business Development. He has more than 15 years of industry experience, including 11 years with Oxy in a number of commercial and business development leadership positions.
About Oxy
Occidental Petroleum Corporation is an international oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Middle East/North Africa and Latin America regions. Oxy is the fourth largest U.S. oil and gas company,
based on equity market capitalization. Oxy's wholly owned subsidiary, OxyChem, manufactures and markets chlor-alkali products and vinyls. Occidental is committed to safeguarding the environment, protecting the safety and health of employees and neighboring communities and upholding high standards of social responsibility in all of the company's worldwide operations.
-0-
 
 
2


