ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS NiSource Inc. Index Page Consolidated Review 20 Executive Summary 20 Results of Operations 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources 26 Off Balance Sheet Items 32 Market Risk Disclosures 32 Other Information 34 Results and Discussion of Segment Operations 39 Gas Distribution Operations 40 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 45 Electric Operations 50 Other Operations 54 Note regarding forward looking statements The Managements Discussion and Analysis, including statements regarding market risk sensitive instruments, contains forward looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors and prospective investors should understand that many factors govern whether any forward looking statement contained herein will be or can be realized. Any one of those factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning NiSources plans, objectives, expected performance, expenditures and recovery of expenditures through rates, stated on either a consolidated or segment basis, and any and all underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical fact. From time to time, NiSource may publish or otherwise make available forward looking statements of this nature. All such subsequent forward looking statements, whether written or oral and whether made by or on behalf of NiSource, are also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. All forward looking statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially. Realization of NiSources objectives and expected performance is subject to a wide range of risks and can be adversely affected by, among other things, weather, fluctuations in supply and demand for energy commodities, growth opportunities for NiSources businesses, increased competition in deregulated energy markets, the success of regulatory and commercial initiatives, dealings with third parties over whom NiSource has no control, the effectiveness of NiSources outsourcing initiative, actual operating experience of NiSources assets, the regulatory process, regulatory and legislative changes, changes in general economic, capital and commodity market conditions, and counter party credit risk, many of which risks are beyond the control of NiSource. In addition, the relative contributions to profitability by each segment, and the assumptions underlying the forward looking statements relating thereto, may change over time. CONSOLIDATED REVIEW Executive Summary NiSource is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries are engaged in the transmission, storage and distribution of natural gas in the high demand energy corridor stretching from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Indiana. NiSource generates virtually 100% of its operating income through these rate regulated businesses. A significant portion of NiSources operations is subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, net revenues from gas are more significant, and during the cooling season, which is primarily from June through September, net revenues from electric sales and transportation services are more significant than in other months. NiSource is a holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. The increase in income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle was primarily due to the following factors: Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net revenues increased due to increased demand services and sales of shorter term transportation and storage services. Strong operating results within Electric Operations due primarily to a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs, strong industrial sales, and customer growth. Decreased interest expense due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005. 2005 results included a loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million and restructuring charges and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million. These increases were partially offset by the following items: Unfavorable weather during 2006 significantly decreased Gas Distribution and Electric Operations net revenues. NiSources gas markets experienced 12% warmer weather compared to normal weather and Northern Indianas electric market experienced an 11% cooler summer cooling season compared to normal weather. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage. Higher natural gas prices contributed to lower natural gas usage by customers, which in turn affected NiSources results. As gas prices decreased during the latter part of 2006, usage erosion did moderate. Increased operating losses in Other Operations driven primarily by Whiting Clean Energy. Going forward, lower losses from this segment are expected. See the discussion below under the heading Whiting Clean Energy. Operation and maintenance expenses increases (excluding trackers and IBM restructuring charges) due to higher legal reserves, employee and administrative expenses, property insurance premiums, generation and maintenance costs, and pipeline integrity costs. 2006 results include a $17.0 million accrual in connection with the BP contract revision, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings primarily related to Millennium. These factors and other impacts to the financial results are discussed in more detail within the following discussions of Results of Operations and Results and Discussion of Segment Operations. Financial and Strategic Review NiSources senior management and Board are continuing the strategic and financial review process initiated during 2006 to unlock the underlying value of the companys asset base and position it for the future. NiSource expects to be in a position to communicate the results of this process early in 2007. Four Point Platform for Growth NiSource has established four key initiatives to build a platform for long term, sustainable growth: commercial and regulatory initiatives; commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business; financial management of the balance sheet; and process and expense management. Commercial and Regulatory Initiatives Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Under the new terms of the agreement, Whiting Clean Energys financial performance should improve beginning in 2007. The profitability of the Whiting Clean Energy project will continue to be dependent on, among other things, prevailing prices in the energy markets and regional load dispatch patterns and the steam requirements for BPs oil refinery. Customer Conservation. NiSource remains focused on the effects of customer conservation and is taking steps to address this issue. NiSource is developing and pursuing a number of regulatory initiatives throughout its distribution markets to mitigate the impact of conservation and customer attrition either through broader rate proceedings or specific mechanisms such as rate design, decoupling or other initiatives developed to moderate the impact of conservation. Rate Developments. NiSources subsidiary, Columbia of Virginia, reached a comprehensive settlement agreement with its commercial and regulatory stakeholders on an innovative PBR plan. The agreement, which has been approved by the VSCC and became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter of 2007. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested, and the IURC has granted, an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Northern Indianas proposal, called Rate Simplification, would provide funding for weatherization and other customer programs while also providing relief to the company for reduced customer usage. Refer to the Results and Discussion of Segment Operations for a complete discussion of regulatory matters. Commercial Growth and Expansion of the Gas Transmission and Storage Business Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services. Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these shorter term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Hardy Storage. Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Millennium Pipeline. Millennium has received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and 22 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. Eastern Market Expansion. Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Financial Management of the Balance Sheet Interest Expense Savings. NiSource refinanced $2.4 billion of long term debt at lower rates during 2005. As a result, interest expense, net was $387.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $32.7 million compared to last year. This improvement was partially offset by lower interest income and higher costs related to the sale of accounts receivable which both contributed to the $20.5 million change in Other, net. Credit Ratings. During 2006, Standard Poors, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all reaffirmed NiSources investment grade credit ratings with a stable outlook. Process and Expense Management IBM Agreement. During the second quarter of 2005, NiSource Corporate Services reached a definitive agreement with IBM under which IBM will provide a broad range of business transformation and outsourcing services to NiSource. NiSources original expectation of the 10 year agreement with IBM was to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. This cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. Many functions have recently been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. As a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have an accelerated time line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. In August, 2006, NiSource and IBM decided to delay further implementation of certain information technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. This delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while continuing to ensure stable operations. NiSource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and develop an integrated plan that enables NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward. Insurance Costs. NiSource renewed both its onshore and offshore property and casualty insurance programs in 2006. NiSource sustained an increase in property insurance costs directly attributable to the increase in insurance premiums for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Casualty premiums remained relatively flat compared to the previous year. Such increases and restrictions in coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures were driven by losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. Ethics and Controls NiSource has always been committed to providing accurate and complete financial reporting as well as requiring a strong commitment to ethical behavior by its employees. During 2006, NiSource tested all significant controls across its financial processes and NiSources management has concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10 K. Refer to Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting included in Item 9A. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the development of this Form 10 K and the monitoring of the companys internal control structure and 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. performance. In addition, NiSource will continue the mandatory ethics training program in which employees at every level and in every function of the organization participate. Results of Operations The Consolidated Review information should be read taking into account the critical accounting policies applied by NiSource and discussed in Other Information of this Item 7. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. Income from continuing operations before the cumulative change in accounting principle for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 was $433.0 million, or $1.64 per basic share. Including results from discontinued operations and the change in accounting principle, NiSource reported 2006 net income of $282.2 million, or $1.04 per basic share, 2005 net income of $306.5 million, or $1.13 per basic share, and 2004 net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per basic share. Comparability of line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in net revenues and had essentially no impact on income from continuing operations. An increase in operating expenses of $55.3 million for the 2006 year was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these tracked costs. In the 2005 period, an increase in operating expenses of $33.6 million for trackers was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these costs. Net Revenues Total consolidated net revenues (gross revenues less cost of sales) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $3,124.6 million, a $22.0 million decrease compared with 2005. Excluding the impact of $55.3 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues decreased by $77.3 million. The change was principally driven by unfavorable weather compared to the prior year, which impacted Gas Distribution Operations net revenues by approximately $89 million as NiSources gas markets experienced 14% warmer weather compared to last year, and decreased Electric Operations net revenues by approximately $21 million due to the northern Indiana electric market experiencing a 24% cooler summer compared to the 2005 summer cooling season. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were also significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage amounting to approximately $22 million. In addition, last years results benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services in Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounting to $43.9 million. Electric Operations net revenues increased by $27.3 million as a result of a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales, which included the impact of a favorable regulatory ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO charges, timing of customer credits, proceeds from emission allowances, strong industrial sales and customer growth. Total consolidated net revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $3,146.6 million, a $99.1 million increase compared with 2004. Excluding the impact of $33.6 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues increased by $65.5 million. Favorable weather during 2005 as compared to 2004 increased net revenues approximately $24 million and $27 million for Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations, respectively. Net revenues also improved due to increased residential and commercial customers and increased overall customer usage within Electric Operations contributing approximately $24.4 million, improved results from Whiting Clean Energy of $17.6 million, increased residential customers for Gas Distribution Operations contributing approximately $8 million, and $12.1 million recognized on the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a decline in customer usage within Gas Distribution Operations of approximately $33.1 million, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations revenues of $20.3 million attributable to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities, and increases in the cost of service for Electric Operations associated with MISO amounting to $15.7 million. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. The increase in income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle was primarily due to the following factors: Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net revenues increased due to increased demand services and sales of shorter term transportation and storage services. Strong operating results within Electric Operations due primarily to a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs, strong industrial sales, and customer growth. Decreased interest expense due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005. 2005 results included a loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million and restructuring charges and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million. These increases were partially offset by the following items: Unfavorable weather during 2006 significantly decreased Gas Distribution and Electric Operations net revenues. NiSources gas markets experienced 12% warmer weather compared to normal weather and Northern Indianas electric market experienced an 11% cooler summer cooling season compared to normal weather. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage. Higher natural gas prices contributed to lower natural gas usage by customers, which in turn affected NiSources results. As gas prices decreased during the latter part of 2006, usage erosion did moderate. Increased operating losses in Other Operations driven primarily by Whiting Clean Energy. Going forward, lower losses from this segment are expected. See the discussion below under the heading Whiting Clean Energy. Operation and maintenance expenses increases (excluding trackers and IBM restructuring charges) due to higher legal reserves, employee and administrative expenses, property insurance premiums, generation and maintenance costs, and pipeline integrity costs. 2006 results include a $17.0 million accrual in connection with the BP contract revision, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings primarily related to Millennium. These factors and other impacts to the financial results are discussed in more detail within the following discussions of Results of Operations and Results and Discussion of Segment Operations. Financial and Strategic Review NiSources senior management and Board are continuing the strategic and financial review process initiated during 2006 to unlock the underlying value of the companys asset base and position it for the future. NiSource expects to be in a position to communicate the results of this process early in 2007. Four Point Platform for Growth NiSource has established four key initiatives to build a platform for long term, sustainable growth: commercial and regulatory initiatives; commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business; financial management of the balance sheet; and process and expense management. Commercial and Regulatory Initiatives Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Under the new terms of the agreement, Whiting Clean Energys financial performance should improve beginning in 2007. The profitability of the Whiting Clean Energy project will continue to be dependent on, among other things, prevailing prices in the energy markets and regional load dispatch patterns and the steam requirements for BPs oil refinery. Customer Conservation. NiSource remains focused on the effects of customer conservation and is taking steps to address this issue. NiSource is developing and pursuing a number of regulatory initiatives throughout its distribution markets to mitigate the impact of conservation and customer attrition either through broader rate proceedings or specific mechanisms such as rate design, decoupling or other initiatives developed to moderate the impact of conservation. Rate Developments. NiSources subsidiary, Columbia of Virginia, reached a comprehensive settlement agreement with its commercial and regulatory stakeholders on an innovative PBR plan. The agreement, which has been approved by the VSCC and became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter of 2007. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested, and the IURC has granted, an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Northern Indianas proposal, called Rate Simplification, would provide funding for weatherization and other customer programs while also providing relief to the company for reduced customer usage. Refer to the Results and Discussion of Segment Operations for a complete discussion of regulatory matters. Commercial Growth and Expansion of the Gas Transmission and Storage Business Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services. Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these shorter term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Hardy Storage. Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Millennium Pipeline. Millennium has received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and 22 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. Eastern Market Expansion. Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Financial Management of the Balance Sheet Interest Expense Savings. NiSource refinanced $2.4 billion of long term debt at lower rates during 2005. As a result, interest expense, net was $387.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $32.7 million compared to last year. This improvement was partially offset by lower interest income and higher costs related to the sale of accounts receivable which both contributed to the $20.5 million change in Other, net. Credit Ratings. During 2006, Standard Poors, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all reaffirmed NiSources investment grade credit ratings with a stable outlook. Process and Expense Management IBM Agreement. During the second quarter of 2005, NiSource Corporate Services reached a definitive agreement with IBM under which IBM will provide a broad range of business transformation and outsourcing services to NiSource. NiSources original expectation of the 10 year agreement with IBM was to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. This cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. Many functions have recently been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. As a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have an accelerated time line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. In August, 2006, NiSource and IBM decided to delay further implementation of certain information technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. This delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while continuing to ensure stable operations. NiSource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and develop an integrated plan that enables NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward. Insurance Costs. NiSource renewed both its onshore and offshore property and casualty insurance programs in 2006. NiSource sustained an increase in property insurance costs directly attributable to the increase in insurance premiums for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Casualty premiums remained relatively flat compared to the previous year. Such increases and restrictions in coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures were driven by losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. Ethics and Controls NiSource has always been committed to providing accurate and complete financial reporting as well as requiring a strong commitment to ethical behavior by its employees. During 2006, NiSource tested all significant controls across its financial processes and NiSources management has concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10 K. Refer to Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting included in Item 9A. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the development of this Form 10 K and the monitoring of the companys internal control structure and 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. performance. In addition, NiSource will continue the mandatory ethics training program in which employees at every level and in every function of the organization participate. Results of Operations The Consolidated Review information should be read taking into account the critical accounting policies applied by NiSource and discussed in Other Information of this Item 7. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. Income from continuing operations before the cumulative change in accounting principle for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 was $433.0 million, or $1.64 per basic share. Including results from discontinued operations and the change in accounting principle, NiSource reported 2006 net income of $282.2 million, or $1.04 per basic share, 2005 net income of $306.5 million, or $1.13 per basic share, and 2004 net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per basic share. Comparability of line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in net revenues and had essentially no impact on income from continuing operations. An increase in operating expenses of $55.3 million for the 2006 year was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these tracked costs. In the 2005 period, an increase in operating expenses of $33.6 million for trackers was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these costs. Net Revenues Total consolidated net revenues (gross revenues less cost of sales) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $3,124.6 million, a $22.0 million decrease compared with 2005. Excluding the impact of $55.3 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues decreased by $77.3 million. The change was principally driven by unfavorable weather compared to the prior year, which impacted Gas Distribution Operations net revenues by approximately $89 million as NiSources gas markets experienced 14% warmer weather compared to last year, and decreased Electric Operations net revenues by approximately $21 million due to the northern Indiana electric market experiencing a 24% cooler summer compared to the 2005 summer cooling season. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were also significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage amounting to approximately $22 million. In addition, last years results benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services in Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounting to $43.9 million. Electric Operations net revenues increased by $27.3 million as a result of a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales, which included the impact of a favorable regulatory ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO charges, timing of customer credits, proceeds from emission allowances, strong industrial sales and customer growth. Total consolidated net revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $3,146.6 million, a $99.1 million increase compared with 2004. Excluding the impact of $33.6 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues increased by $65.5 million. Favorable weather during 2005 as compared to 2004 increased net revenues approximately $24 million and $27 million for Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations, respectively. Net revenues also improved due to increased residential and commercial customers and increased overall customer usage within Electric Operations contributing approximately $24.4 million, improved results from Whiting Clean Energy of $17.6 million, increased residential customers for Gas Distribution Operations contributing approximately $8 million, and $12.1 million recognized on the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a decline in customer usage within Gas Distribution Operations of approximately $33.1 million, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations revenues of $20.3 million attributable to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities, and increases in the cost of service for Electric Operations associated with MISO amounting to $15.7 million. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Under the new terms of the agreement, Whiting Clean Energys financial performance should improve beginning in 2007. The profitability of the Whiting Clean Energy project will continue to be dependent on, among other things, prevailing prices in the energy markets and regional load dispatch patterns and the steam requirements for BPs oil refinery. Customer Conservation. NiSource remains focused on the effects of customer conservation and is taking steps to address this issue. NiSource is developing and pursuing a number of regulatory initiatives throughout its distribution markets to mitigate the impact of conservation and customer attrition either through broader rate proceedings or specific mechanisms such as rate design, decoupling or other initiatives developed to moderate the impact of conservation. Rate Developments. NiSources subsidiary, Columbia of Virginia, reached a comprehensive settlement agreement with its commercial and regulatory stakeholders on an innovative PBR plan. The agreement, which has been approved by the VSCC and became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter of 2007. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested, and the IURC has granted, an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Northern Indianas proposal, called Rate Simplification, would provide funding for weatherization and other customer programs while also providing relief to the company for reduced customer usage. Refer to the Results and Discussion of Segment Operations for a complete discussion of regulatory matters. Commercial Growth and Expansion of the Gas Transmission and Storage Business Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services. Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these shorter term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Hardy Storage. Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Millennium Pipeline. Millennium has received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and 22 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. Eastern Market Expansion. Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Financial Management of the Balance Sheet Interest Expense Savings. NiSource refinanced $2.4 billion of long term debt at lower rates during 2005. As a result, interest expense, net was $387.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $32.7 million compared to last year. This improvement was partially offset by lower interest income and higher costs related to the sale of accounts receivable which both contributed to the $20.5 million change in Other, net. Credit Ratings. During 2006, Standard Poors, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all reaffirmed NiSources investment grade credit ratings with a stable outlook. Process and Expense Management IBM Agreement. During the second quarter of 2005, NiSource Corporate Services reached a definitive agreement with IBM under which IBM will provide a broad range of business transformation and outsourcing services to NiSource. NiSources original expectation of the 10 year agreement with IBM was to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. This cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. Many functions have recently been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. As a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have an accelerated time line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. In August, 2006, NiSource and IBM decided to delay further implementation of certain information technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. This delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while continuing to ensure stable operations. NiSource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and develop an integrated plan that enables NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward. Insurance Costs. NiSource renewed both its onshore and offshore property and casualty insurance programs in 2006. NiSource sustained an increase in property insurance costs directly attributable to the increase in insurance premiums for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Casualty premiums remained relatively flat compared to the previous year. Such increases and restrictions in coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures were driven by losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. Ethics and Controls NiSource has always been committed to providing accurate and complete financial reporting as well as requiring a strong commitment to ethical behavior by its employees. During 2006, NiSource tested all significant controls across its financial processes and NiSources management has concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10 K. Refer to Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting included in Item 9A. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the development of this Form 10 K and the monitoring of the companys internal control structure and 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. performance. In addition, NiSource will continue the mandatory ethics training program in which employees at every level and in every function of the organization participate. Results of Operations The Consolidated Review information should be read taking into account the critical accounting policies applied by NiSource and discussed in Other Information of this Item 7. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. Income from continuing operations before the cumulative change in accounting principle for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 was $433.0 million, or $1.64 per basic share. Including results from discontinued operations and the change in accounting principle, NiSource reported 2006 net income of $282.2 million, or $1.04 per basic share, 2005 net income of $306.5 million, or $1.13 per basic share, and 2004 net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per basic share. Comparability of line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in net revenues and had essentially no impact on income from continuing operations. An increase in operating expenses of $55.3 million for the 2006 year was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these tracked costs. In the 2005 period, an increase in operating expenses of $33.6 million for trackers was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these costs. Net Revenues Total consolidated net revenues (gross revenues less cost of sales) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $3,124.6 million, a $22.0 million decrease compared with 2005. Excluding the impact of $55.3 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues decreased by $77.3 million. The change was principally driven by unfavorable weather compared to the prior year, which impacted Gas Distribution Operations net revenues by approximately $89 million as NiSources gas markets experienced 14% warmer weather compared to last year, and decreased Electric Operations net revenues by approximately $21 million due to the northern Indiana electric market experiencing a 24% cooler summer compared to the 2005 summer cooling season. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were also significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage amounting to approximately $22 million. In addition, last years results benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services in Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounting to $43.9 million. Electric Operations net revenues increased by $27.3 million as a result of a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales, which included the impact of a favorable regulatory ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO charges, timing of customer credits, proceeds from emission allowances, strong industrial sales and customer growth. Total consolidated net revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $3,146.6 million, a $99.1 million increase compared with 2004. Excluding the impact of $33.6 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues increased by $65.5 million. Favorable weather during 2005 as compared to 2004 increased net revenues approximately $24 million and $27 million for Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations, respectively. Net revenues also improved due to increased residential and commercial customers and increased overall customer usage within Electric Operations contributing approximately $24.4 million, improved results from Whiting Clean Energy of $17.6 million, increased residential customers for Gas Distribution Operations contributing approximately $8 million, and $12.1 million recognized on the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a decline in customer usage within Gas Distribution Operations of approximately $33.1 million, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations revenues of $20.3 million attributable to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities, and increases in the cost of service for Electric Operations associated with MISO amounting to $15.7 million. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. Eastern Market Expansion. Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Financial Management of the Balance Sheet Interest Expense Savings. NiSource refinanced $2.4 billion of long term debt at lower rates during 2005. As a result, interest expense, net was $387.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $32.7 million compared to last year. This improvement was partially offset by lower interest income and higher costs related to the sale of accounts receivable which both contributed to the $20.5 million change in Other, net. Credit Ratings. During 2006, Standard Poors, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings all reaffirmed NiSources investment grade credit ratings with a stable outlook. Process and Expense Management IBM Agreement. During the second quarter of 2005, NiSource Corporate Services reached a definitive agreement with IBM under which IBM will provide a broad range of business transformation and outsourcing services to NiSource. NiSources original expectation of the 10 year agreement with IBM was to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. This cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. Many functions have recently been transitioned to IBM and many new personnel have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. As a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have an accelerated time line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on NiSource and its financial condition. In August, 2006, NiSource and IBM decided to delay further implementation of certain information technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. This delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while continuing to ensure stable operations. NiSource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and develop an integrated plan that enables NiSource to achieve its business objectives going forward. Insurance Costs. NiSource renewed both its onshore and offshore property and casualty insurance programs in 2006. NiSource sustained an increase in property insurance costs directly attributable to the increase in insurance premiums for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Casualty premiums remained relatively flat compared to the previous year. Such increases and restrictions in coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures were driven by losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. Ethics and Controls NiSource has always been committed to providing accurate and complete financial reporting as well as requiring a strong commitment to ethical behavior by its employees. During 2006, NiSource tested all significant controls across its financial processes and NiSources management has concluded that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10 K. Refer to Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting included in Item 9A. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the development of this Form 10 K and the monitoring of the companys internal control structure and 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. performance. In addition, NiSource will continue the mandatory ethics training program in which employees at every level and in every function of the organization participate. Results of Operations The Consolidated Review information should be read taking into account the critical accounting policies applied by NiSource and discussed in Other Information of this Item 7. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. Income from continuing operations before the cumulative change in accounting principle for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 was $433.0 million, or $1.64 per basic share. Including results from discontinued operations and the change in accounting principle, NiSource reported 2006 net income of $282.2 million, or $1.04 per basic share, 2005 net income of $306.5 million, or $1.13 per basic share, and 2004 net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per basic share. Comparability of line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in net revenues and had essentially no impact on income from continuing operations. An increase in operating expenses of $55.3 million for the 2006 year was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these tracked costs. In the 2005 period, an increase in operating expenses of $33.6 million for trackers was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these costs. Net Revenues Total consolidated net revenues (gross revenues less cost of sales) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $3,124.6 million, a $22.0 million decrease compared with 2005. Excluding the impact of $55.3 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues decreased by $77.3 million. The change was principally driven by unfavorable weather compared to the prior year, which impacted Gas Distribution Operations net revenues by approximately $89 million as NiSources gas markets experienced 14% warmer weather compared to last year, and decreased Electric Operations net revenues by approximately $21 million due to the northern Indiana electric market experiencing a 24% cooler summer compared to the 2005 summer cooling season. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were also significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage amounting to approximately $22 million. In addition, last years results benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services in Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounting to $43.9 million. Electric Operations net revenues increased by $27.3 million as a result of a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales, which included the impact of a favorable regulatory ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO charges, timing of customer credits, proceeds from emission allowances, strong industrial sales and customer growth. Total consolidated net revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $3,146.6 million, a $99.1 million increase compared with 2004. Excluding the impact of $33.6 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues increased by $65.5 million. Favorable weather during 2005 as compared to 2004 increased net revenues approximately $24 million and $27 million for Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations, respectively. Net revenues also improved due to increased residential and commercial customers and increased overall customer usage within Electric Operations contributing approximately $24.4 million, improved results from Whiting Clean Energy of $17.6 million, increased residential customers for Gas Distribution Operations contributing approximately $8 million, and $12.1 million recognized on the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a decline in customer usage within Gas Distribution Operations of approximately $33.1 million, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations revenues of $20.3 million attributable to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities, and increases in the cost of service for Electric Operations associated with MISO amounting to $15.7 million. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. performance. In addition, NiSource will continue the mandatory ethics training program in which employees at every level and in every function of the organization participate. Results of Operations The Consolidated Review information should be read taking into account the critical accounting policies applied by NiSource and discussed in Other Information of this Item 7. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, NiSource reported income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $313.5 million, or $1.15 per basic share, compared to $284.1 million, or $1.05 per basic share in 2005. Income from continuing operations before the cumulative change in accounting principle for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 was $433.0 million, or $1.64 per basic share. Including results from discontinued operations and the change in accounting principle, NiSource reported 2006 net income of $282.2 million, or $1.04 per basic share, 2005 net income of $306.5 million, or $1.13 per basic share, and 2004 net income of $436.3 million, or $1.65 per basic share. Comparability of line item operating results was impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in net revenues and had essentially no impact on income from continuing operations. An increase in operating expenses of $55.3 million for the 2006 year was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these tracked costs. In the 2005 period, an increase in operating expenses of $33.6 million for trackers was offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of these costs. Net Revenues Total consolidated net revenues (gross revenues less cost of sales) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $3,124.6 million, a $22.0 million decrease compared with 2005. Excluding the impact of $55.3 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues decreased by $77.3 million. The change was principally driven by unfavorable weather compared to the prior year, which impacted Gas Distribution Operations net revenues by approximately $89 million as NiSources gas markets experienced 14% warmer weather compared to last year, and decreased Electric Operations net revenues by approximately $21 million due to the northern Indiana electric market experiencing a 24% cooler summer compared to the 2005 summer cooling season. Gas Distribution Operations net revenues were also significantly affected by decreased residential gas customer usage amounting to approximately $22 million. In addition, last years results benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services in Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounting to $43.9 million. Electric Operations net revenues increased by $27.3 million as a result of a reduction in unrecoverable MISO costs included in costs of sales, which included the impact of a favorable regulatory ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO charges, timing of customer credits, proceeds from emission allowances, strong industrial sales and customer growth. Total consolidated net revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $3,146.6 million, a $99.1 million increase compared with 2004. Excluding the impact of $33.6 million of trackers discussed above, net revenues increased by $65.5 million. Favorable weather during 2005 as compared to 2004 increased net revenues approximately $24 million and $27 million for Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations, respectively. Net revenues also improved due to increased residential and commercial customers and increased overall customer usage within Electric Operations contributing approximately $24.4 million, improved results from Whiting Clean Energy of $17.6 million, increased residential customers for Gas Distribution Operations contributing approximately $8 million, and $12.1 million recognized on the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a decline in customer usage within Gas Distribution Operations of approximately $33.1 million, lower Gas Transmission and Storage Operations revenues of $20.3 million attributable to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, net of remarketing activities, and increases in the cost of service for Electric Operations associated with MISO amounting to $15.7 million. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Expenses Operating expenses were $2,232.3 million in 2006, a $38.1 million increase from 2005. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above) operating expenses decreased $17.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to impacts in 2005 which included restructuring charges, transition costs, pension and other postretirement benefit charges, and other costs associated with the IBM outsourcing initiative totaling $82.8 million, a $10.9 million charge for obsolete software systems and a $10.9 million impairment charge related to goodwill at Kokomo Gas. Operating expense increases in 2006 included $18.1 million for certain legal matters, a $17 million accrual in conjunction with the BP contract revision, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $17 million, transition and other restructuring charges associated with the IBM agreement of $12.3 million, generation and maintenance costs of $9.3 million in Electric Operations, and higher property insurance premiums of $8.7 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. Operating expenses of $2,194.2 million for 2005 increased $224.7 million over 2004. Excluding increases in expenses that are recovered through regulatory trackers and corresponding increases in net revenues (see discussion above), operating expenses increased $189.0 million. Operation and maintenance expense increased largely due to restructuring charges, including a pension and other postretirement benefit charge, transition costs and consulting fees related to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM which totaled $82.8 million and higher electric generation expenses of $7.2 million. Depreciation expense increased approximately $30 million as a result of the expiration in November 2004 of the prior Columbia of Ohio regulatory stipulation that allowed for deferral of certain depreciation amounts. The 2004 period benefited from a reduction in estimated property tax accruals amounting to $33.0 million, while gross receipts tax increased $16.0 million in 2005, which is offset in revenue. In addition, goodwill associated with Kokomo Gas was impaired by $10.9 million and certain software systems were impaired totaling $10.9 million due to the outsourcing initiative and service agreement with IBM. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates reduced 2006 income $12.3 million compared to earnings of $0.2 million in 2005. Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates include investments in Millennium and Hardy Storage which are integral to the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations business. In December 2006, Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project. The certificate order approved certain project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. Other Income (Deductions) Other Income (Deductions) in 2006 reduced income $395.7 million compared to a reduction of $518.9 million in 2005. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million during 2005 and decreased interest expense of $32.7 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the refinancing of $2.4 billion in long term debt at lower rates during 2005, drove the decrease in other deductions. Other, net was a loss of $6.5 million for 2006 compared to income of $14.0 million for the comparable 2005 period due to lower interest income and increased costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Higher fees, due to higher interest rates, and increased levels of accounts receivable balances resulted in the higher expenses associated with the sale of accounts receivable. Other Income (Deductions) in 2005 reduced income $518.9 million compared to a reduction of $402.3 million in 2004. A loss on early extinguishment of long term debt of $108.6 million recognized in 2005 drove the increased expense. Interest expense, net increased $19 million from 2004 primarily due to the impact of higher short term interest rates on variable rate debt and higher average long term debt balances due to the prefunding of November 2005 debt maturities. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $21.2 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 primarily due to higher pre tax income from the prior year. Income taxes decreased $93.1 million in 2005 from 2004 primarily due to lower pre tax income from 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. the prior year. The effective income tax rates were 35.3%, 34.5%, and 35.9% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The overall effective tax rate increase in 2006 versus 2005 was due to favorable state and federal income tax adjustments recorded in 2005 (discussed below) and a reduction in the electric production deduction and low income housing credits from those recorded in 2005. The increase was partially offset by a lower effective state income tax rate in 2006 due to a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities. It is expected that state income tax expense will return to more historic levels in 2007. The 1.4% decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is due to the impact of the tax benefit associated with the electric production deduction (discussed below), an adjustment to deferred taxes at Northern Indiana related to a reduction in deferred income tax requirements and a reduction in deferred state income tax liabilities resulting from a revised estimate of consolidated state income tax apportionment factors. Offsetting these reductions is an increase in the effective tax rate associated with the non deductible goodwill impairment charge recorded at Kokomo Gas and increased taxes related to Ohio income tax law changes enacted on June 30, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, signed into law on October 22, 2004, created new Internal Revenue Code Section 199 which, beginning in 2005, permits taxpayers to claim a deduction from taxable income attributable to certain domestic production activities. Northern Indiana and Whiting Clean Energys electric production activities qualify for this deduction. The deduction is equal to 3% of QPAI for the taxable year, with certain limitations. This deduction increases to 6% of QPAI beginning in 2007 and 9% of QPAI beginning in 2010 and thereafter. The tax benefit for the Section 199 domestic production activities deduction claimed in NiSources 2005 consolidated federal income tax return was $0.9 million and is estimated to be $0.9 million for 2006. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations reflected an after tax loss of $31.7 million, or $0.11 loss per basic share, in 2006, income of $22.7 million, or $0.08 per basic share, in 2005 and income of $3.3 million, or $0.01 per basic share, in 2004. The loss from discontinued operations in 2006 was primarily the result of an increase to legal reserves and the sale of certain low income housing investments. Results from discontinued operations in 2005, net of taxes, include a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $43.5 million partially offset by a loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million. The gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of taxes, resulted from changes to reserves for contingencies related primarily to the previous sales of IWC, former Primary Energy subsidiaries and other dispositions. The loss from discontinued operations in 2005 included changes to reserves for contingencies primarily related to CER and an impairment of assets related to Transcom. In 2004, income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is primarily from a reduction in estimated income taxes associated with NiSources former exploration and production subsidiary, CER. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2006 of $0.4 million, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. Refer to Note 14, Stock Based Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 of a $0.3 million loss, net of taxes, resulted from the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, cash flow from operations has provided sufficient liquidity to meet operating requirements. A significant portion of NiSources operations, most notably in the gas distribution, gas transportation and electric distribution businesses, is subject to seasonal fluctuations in cash flow. During the heating season, which is primarily from November through March, cash receipts from gas sales and transportation services typically exceed cash requirements. During the summer months, cash on hand, together with the seasonal increase in cash flows from the electric business during the summer cooling season and external short term and long term financing, is used to purchase gas to place in storage for heating season deliveries and perform necessary maintenance of facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Beginning in 2007, capital expenditures and other investing activities are expected to increase due to age and condition replacement programs and an increase in growth projects (see discussion below). Capital expenditures are expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was $1,156.2 million, an increase of $443.9 million from a year ago. This increase was primarily due to a significant reduction in outstanding accounts receivable and the collection of under recovered gas cost partially offset by the impact in 2006 of reduced accounts payable balances. High gas cost in December 2005 resulted in unusually large balances in accounts receivable, accounts payable and under recovered gas cost. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding. In 2007, NiSource expects to make contributions of approximately $50.4 million to its pension plans and approximately $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans. Investing Activities Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and other investing activities by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004 and an estimate for year 2007. The other investing activities include investing in equity investments such as Millennium and Hardy Storage. (in millions) 2007E 2006 2005 2004 Gas Distribution Operations $ 333.4 $ 283.4 $ 278.5 $ 225.2 Gas Transmission and Storage Operations 227.0 208.1 167.9 133.3 Electric Operations 236.8 151.2 135.6 154.0 Other Operations 3.9 5.7 17.0 10.9 Total $ 801.1 $ 648.4 $ 599.0 $ 523.4 For 2006, capital expenditures and certain other investing activities were $648.4 million, an increase of $49.4 million over 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures at the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment including pipeline integrity costs to comply with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule as well as increased expenditures to update electric generation assets. The Gas Distribution Operations segments capital program in 2006 included new business initiatives to extend service to new areas and develop future markets through new services that may be added to the existing business and to create a potential new pool of customers, as well as expenditures to ensure safe, reliable and improved service to customers and modernize and upgrade facilities. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment invested primarily in modernizing and upgrading facilities including investments to comply with DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment also invested in new business initiatives to maintain and expand market share in storage and interstate transportation by meeting the demands of consumers who will use gas for electric power generation and meeting the needs of existing, new or growing customers through the construction of significant new facilities, either wholly owned by NiSource or in partnership with other qualified project participants. The Electric Operations segment capital program included improvements related to the operational integrity of generation, transmission and distribution assets, expenditures related to environmental compliance regarding NOx reduction, and additions to electric distribution systems related to new business. Capital expenditures in the Other Operations segment mainly comprise partnership investments and enterprise wide information technology infrastructure improvement. For 2007 the projected capital program and certain other investing activities are expected to be $801.1 million, which is approximately $152.7 million higher than the 2006 level. This higher spending is mainly due to expenditures to overhaul certain electric generation units within the Electric Operations segment, modernizing and upgrading facilities at certain distribution companies and an increase in expenditures for key market area growth projects primarily within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations. The program is expected to be funded via a combination of cash flow from operations and new long term debt issuances during 2007. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Financing Activities On July 29, 2003, NiSource filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC to periodically sell up to $2.5 billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, and other securities. The registration statement became effective on August 7, 2003, which when combined with NiSources pre existing shelf capacity, provided an aggregate $2.8 billion of total issuance capacity. As of December 31, 2006, NiSources remaining shelf capacity was $850 million. Long term Debt. During 2006, NiSource funded the redemption of $434.4 million of long term debt with cash from operations and an increase of short term borrowings. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. During November 2006, NiSource redeemed $144.4 million of its senior debentures with an interest rate of 3.628%. Also during November 2006, NiSource Finance redeemed $250.0 million of its unsecured notes with an interest rate of 3.20%. During May 2006, NiSource redeemed $25.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.50%. During April 2006, NiSource redeemed $15.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.75%. On November 29, 2005, Columbia redeemed $1.1 billion of its senior unsecured notes that became callable on November 28, 2005, having an average interest rate of 7.34%. On November 28, 2005, Columbia redeemed $281.5 million of its senior unsecured notes with an average interest rate of 6.80%. The associated charges included an $86 million non cash charge relating to the write off of the unamortized portion of a fair market value adjustment made at the time of the NiSource Columbia merger, an $8 million non cash charge associated with the unamortized portion of swap termination charges, and a $14 million cash charge for call premiums, all of which were charged to loss on early extinguishment of long term debt. On November 28, 2005, NiSource Finance issued, in the private placement market, $900 million in unregistered senior unsecured notes in four tranches: $315 million of 7 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.21%; $230 million of 10 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.36%; $90 million of 11 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.41%; and $265 million of 20 year notes at a coupon rate of 5.89%. The proceeds, along with other funding sources, were used to refinance the above mentioned Columbia senior unsecured notes. On November 15, 2005, NiSource Finance redeemed $900 million of its senior unsecured notes having an average interest rate of 7.625%. On September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance issued $450 million of 5.25% 12 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2017 and $550 million of 5.45% 15 year unsecured notes that mature September 15, 2020. The proceeds were used in part to redeem $900 million of NiSource Finance notes due November 15, 2005. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes, NiSource Finance terminated $900 million of forward starting swaps resulting in a $35.5 million payment to NiSources swap counterparties. The swap termination payments are being amortized over the life of the new debt issues, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. During July 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $34.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.62%. During June 2005, Northern Indiana redeemed $39.3 million of its medium term notes and Bay State redeemed $10.0 million of its medium term notes with an average interest rate of 6.79% and 6.58%, respectively. During April 2005, NiSource redeemed $30.0 million of Capital Markets medium term notes, with an average interest rate of 7.67%. Cumulative Preferred Stock. On April 14, 2006, Northern Indiana redeemed all of its outstanding cumulative preferred stock, having a total redemption value of $81.6 million. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Credit Facilities. During July 2006, NiSource Finance amended its $1.25 billion five year revolving credit facility increasing the aggregate commitment level to $1.5 billion, extending the termination date by one year to July 2011, and reduced the cost of borrowing. The amended facility will help maintain a reasonable cushion of short term liquidity in anticipation of continuing volatile natural gas prices. During November 2006, NiSource Finance entered into a new $300 million three month revolving credit agreement with Dresdner Kleinwort that expired February 15, 2007. NiSource Finance had outstanding credit facility borrowings of $1,193.0 million at December 31, 2006, at a weighted average interest rate of 5.68%, and borrowings of $898.0 million at December 31, 2005, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.95%. The increase in short term borrowings was primarily due to the redemption of long term debt during 2006. NiSource decided not to issue new long term debt until the strategic and financial review is completed. The review is expected to be completed in early 2007. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, NiSource Finance had $81.9 million and $101.6 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding, respectively. At December 31, 2006, $53.9 million of the $81.9 million total outstanding letters of credit resided within a separate bi lateral letter of credit arrangement with Barclays Bank that NiSource Finance obtained during February 2004. Of the remaining $28.0 million of stand by letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2006, $24.6 million resided under NiSource Finances five year credit facility and $3.4 million resided under an uncommitted arrangement with another financial institution. As of December 31, 2006, $582.4 million of credit was available under both credit facilities. Debt Covenants. NiSource is subject to one financial covenant under both its five year revolving credit facility and its three month revolving credit agreement. NiSource must maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource was in compliance with this financial covenant in both of its credit agreements. NiSource is also subject to certain other covenants under the revolving credit facilities. Such covenants include a limitation on the creation or existence of new liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket equal to $150 million. An asset sale covenant generally restricts the sale, lease and or transfer of NiSources assets to no more than 10% of its consolidated total assets. The revolving credit facilities also include a cross default provision, which triggers an event of default under the credit facility in the event of an uncured payment default relating to any indebtedness of NiSource or any of its subsidiaries in a principal amount of $50 million or more. NiSources bond indentures generally do not contain any financial maintenance covenants. However, NiSources bond indentures are generally subject to cross default provisions ranging from uncured payment defaults of $5 million to $50 million, and limitations on the incurrence of liens on NiSources assets, generally exempting liens on utility assets, purchase money security interests, preexisting security interests and an additional asset basket capped at either 5% or 10% of NiSources consolidated net tangible assets. Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. On May 14, 2004, Columbia of Ohio entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, substantially all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to CORC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia of Ohio. CORC, in turn, is party to an agreement, also dated May 14, 2004, under the terms of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The agreement, which had a scheduled expiration date of May 12, 2006, was extended for another year to May 11, 2007. The agreement was further amended on July 1, 2006 increasing the program limit from $300 million to $350 million and extending the expiration date to June 29, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $184.3 million of accounts receivable had been sold by CORC. Under the agreement, Columbia of Ohio acts as administrative agent, by performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold by CORC. Columbia of Ohio receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. On December 30, 2003, Northern Indiana entered into an agreement to sell, without recourse, all of its trade receivables, as they originate, to NRC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Indiana. NRC, in turn, is party to an agreement under the term of which it sells an undivided percentage ownership interest in the accounts receivable to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit can purchase up to $200 million of accounts receivable under the agreement. NRCs agreement with the commercial paper conduit has a scheduled expiration date of December 21, 2007, and can be renewed if mutually agreed to by both parties. As of December 31, 2006, NRC had sold $189.7 million of accounts receivable. Under the arrangement, Northern Indiana may not sell any new receivables if Northern Indianas debt rating falls below BBB or Baa3 at Standard and Poors and Moodys, respectively. Under the agreement, Northern Indiana acts as administrative agent, performing record keeping and cash collection functions for the accounts receivable sold. Northern Indiana receives a fee, which provides adequate compensation, for such services. Credit Ratings. NiSources credit ratings continue to be affirmed by the major rating agencies. Moodys Investors Services, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings in December 2006. Moodys Investors Services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at Baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. Moodys ratings outlook for NiSource and its subsidiaries is stable. Standard and Poors affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for NiSource at BBB, and the existing ratings for all other subsidiaries. Standard and Poors outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Fitch Ratings affirmed their BBB senior unsecured rating for NiSource and the BBB ratings for Columbia and Northern Indiana. Fitchs outlook for NiSource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. Certain TPC gas derivative agreements contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below BBB by Standard and Poors or Baa3 by Moodys. The collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $20 million to $25 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other gas derivative agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions. The collateral requirement for those agreements would amount to approximately $170 million to $175 million. Columbia Energy Services is the principal for two surety bonds issued to guarantee performance in two separate long term gas supply agreements. The surety, in accordance with the terms of its indemnity agreements, required NiSource to post a letter of credit in the face amount of approximately $131 million, declining over time, to support the bonds. At December 31, 2006, the total amount of letters of credit required with respect to this transaction was $53.9 million. The agreement will expire on December 31, 2008. Columbia was the principal for surety bonds issued to guarantee performance under forward gas sales agreements. The surety bonds related to forward gas sales under agreements with Mahonia and had indemnity values, which declined over time and had ratings triggers based on Columbias credit rating. In the third quarter of 2005, these bonds expired. In February 2006, the forward sales agreements guaranteed by Columbia were completed. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Contractual Obligations. NiSource has certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. The obligations include long term debt, lease obligations, energy commodity contracts and purchase obligations for various services including pipeline capacity and IBM outsourcing. The table below excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, other than current maturities of long term debt and current interest payments on long term debt. The total contractual obligations in existence at December 31, 2006 and their maturities were: (in millions) Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 After Long term debt $ 5,240.8 $ 90.8 $ 33.5 $ 465.8 $ 1,015.1 $ 307.4 $ 3,328.2 Capital leases 8.7 2.1 2.7 2.9 0.1 0.1 0.8 Interest payments on long term debt 2,576.2 335.4 319.0 314.0 279.5 199.7 1,128.6 Operating leases 223.7 47.2 42.5 33.6 26.5 21.8 52.1 Energy commodity contracts 1221.3 511.6 252.7 194.3 68.4 38.9 155.4 Service obligations: Pipeline service obligations 1,067.6 226.1 193.3 137.5 111.0 95.3 304.4 IBM service obligations 1,343.2 163.3 164.8 165.0 167.1 161.0 522.0 Other service obligations 403.0 84.9 80.4 36.2 28.4 28.8 144.3 Total contractual obligations $ 12,084.5 $ 1,461.4 $ 1,088.9 $ 1,349.3 $ 1,696.1 $ 853.0 $ 5,635.8 NiSource calculated estimated interest payments for long term debt as follows: for the fixed rate debt, interest is calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates; for variable rate debt, interest rates are used that are in place as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, NiSource projects that it will be required to make interest payments of approximately $392 million, which includes $335.4 million of interest payments related to its long term debt. At December 31, 2006, NiSource also had $1,193.0 million in short term borrowings outstanding. NiSources subsidiaries have entered into various energy commodity contracts to purchase physical quantities of natural gas, electricity and coal. These amounts represent minimum quantities of these commodities NiSource is obligated to purchase at both fixed and variable prices. NiSource has pipeline service agreements that provide for pipeline capacity, transportation and storage services. These agreements, which have expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2019, require NiSource to pay fixed monthly charges. In June 2005, NiSource Corporate Services and IBM signed a definitive agreement to provide a broad range of business process and support services to NiSource. As part of this agreement, IBM will operate a broad range of business support functions for NiSource, including processes within the Human Resources, Finance and Accounting, Supply Chain (procurement), Customer Contact, Meter to Cash (billing and collections) and Information Technology areas. The agreement also includes a broad array of transformational consulting services and emerging technology expertise. The contract has a 10 year term and NiSource has the right to renew it for up to three additional years. NiSource will pay for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The variable charge component can fluctuate to reflect NiSources actual usage of service and service levels. Fees may be adjusted to reflect economic changes such as inflation or business changes that both parties agree to. Upon any termination of the agreement by NiSource for any reason (other than material breach by IBM), NiSource must pay IBM a termination charge that will include a breakage fee, repayment of IBMs un recovered capital investments, and IBM wind down expense. This termination fee can be a material amount depending on the events giving rise to termination and the timing of the termination. NiSources other service obligations include agreements with certain rail companies, Pure Air and General Electric. Northern Indiana has contracts with four major rail operators providing for coal transportation services for which there are certain minimum payments. These service contracts extend for various periods through 2009. Northern Indiana has a service agreement with Pure Air, a general partnership between Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and First Air Partners LP, under which Pure Air provides scrubber services to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions for Units 7 and 8 at the Bailly Generating Station. Services under this contract commenced on June 15, 1992, and 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Northern Indiana pays for the services under a combination of fixed and variable charges. The agreement provides that, assuming various performance standards are met by Pure Air, a termination payment would be due if Northern Indiana terminated the agreement prior to the end of the twenty year contract period. Whiting Clean Energy has a service agreement with General Electric for certain operation and maintenance activities for its cogeneration facility located at BPs Whiting, Indiana refinery for which certain minimum fees are required. The agreement extends through 2023. The agreement provides for a $10 million termination penalty to be paid by Whiting Clean Energy to General Electric to buy out or otherwise terminate the agreement. Due to strong equity markets, the fair value of NiSources pension fund assets as of September 30, 2006, have increased for the fourth year in a row. Additionally, $16.0 million in employer contributions were made during the 2006 plan year to certain of NiSources qualified and non qualified pension plans. NiSource expects market returns to revert to normal levels as demonstrated in historical periods and expects to contribute approximately $50.4 million in 2007 to certain pension plans. NiSource expects to recognize net pension income in 2007 of approximately $4 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns. In addition, NiSource expects to make contributions of $52.3 million to its postretirement medical and life plans in 2007. See Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NiSource also has obligations associated with various taxes and expects to make tax payments of approximately $546 million in 2007. Off Balance Sheet Items As a part of normal business, NiSource and certain subsidiaries enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand by letters of credit. NiSource has issued guarantees that support up to approximately $634.4 million of commodity related payments for its current subsidiaries involved in energy commodity contracts and to satisfy requirements under forward gas sales agreements of current and former subsidiaries. These guarantees were provided to counterparties in order to facilitate physical and financial transactions involving natural gas and electricity. To the extent liabilities exist under the commodity related contracts subject to these guarantees, such liabilities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. NiSource has purchase and sales agreement guarantees totaling $82.5 million, which guarantee performance of the sellers covenants, agreements, obligations, liabilities, representations and warranties under the agreements. No amounts related to the purchase and sales agreement guarantees are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management believes that the likelihood NiSource would be required to perform or otherwise incur any significant losses associated with any of the aforementioned guarantees is remote. NiSource has other guarantees outstanding. Refer to Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about NiSources off balance sheet arrangements. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of NiSources energy businesses. The extent to which NiSource properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its businesses is critical to its profitability. NiSource seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks that are involved in NiSources energy businesses: commodity market risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. Risk management at NiSource is a multi faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. NiSources senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, NiSources risk management policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Various analytical techniques are employed to measure and monitor NiSources market and credit risks, including VaR. VaR represents the potential loss or gain for an instrument or portfolio from changes in market factors, for a specified time period and at a specified confidence level. Commodity Price Risk NiSource is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its subsidiaries operations involving natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, NiSources subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps and options. NiSource is not involved in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries is limited, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas costs through the rate making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. If states should explore additional regulatory reform, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Some of NiSources rate regulated utility subsidiaries offer commodity price risk products to its customers for which derivatives are used to hedge forecasted customer usage under such products. These subsidiaries do not have regulatory recovery orders for these products and are subject to gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. TPC, on behalf of Whiting Clean Energy, enters into power and gas derivative contracts to manage commodity price risk associated with operating Whiting Clean Energy. These derivative contracts do not always receive hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133 and variances in earnings could be recognized as a result of marking these derivatives to market. During 2006 and 2005, a gain of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, net of taxes respectively, were recognized in earnings due to the ineffectiveness of derivative instruments being accounted for as hedges. No amounts were recognized in earnings in 2006 and $0.4 million was recognized in earnings in 2005 due to losses on derivatives classified as trading. It is anticipated that during the next twelve months the expiration and settlement of cash flow hedge contracts will result in income statement recognition of amounts currently classified in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $54.6 million, net of taxes. Refer to Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on NiSources various derivative programs for managing commodity price risk. Interest Rate Risk NiSource is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under revolving credit agreements, variable rate pollution control bonds and floating rate notes, which have interest rates that are indexed to short term market interest rates. NiSource is also exposed to interest rate risk due to changes in interest rates on fixed to variable interest rate swaps that hedge the fair value of long term debt. Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short term market interest rates, an increase in short term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased interest expense by $25.3 million and $20.1 million for the years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Contemporaneously with the pricing of the 5.25% and 5.45% notes issued September 16, 2005, NiSource Finance settled $900 million of forward starting interest rate swap agreements with six counterparties. NiSource paid an aggregate settlement payment of $35.5 million which is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt, resulting in an effective interest rate of 5.67% and 5.88% respectively. NiSource has entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the interest rate characteristics of its outstanding long term debt from fixed to variable. On May 12, 2004, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $660 million with six counterparties having a 6 1/2 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 7.875% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus an average of 3.08% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on May 15, 2009. On July 22, 2003, NiSource Finance entered into fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements in a notional amount of $500 million with four counterparties with an 11 year term. NiSource Finance will receive payments based upon a fixed 5.40% interest rate and pay a floating interest amount based on U.S. 6 month BBA LIBOR plus 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. an average of 0.78% per annum. There was no exchange of premium at the initial date of the swaps. In addition, each party has the right to cancel the swaps on either July 15, 2008 or July 15, 2013. As a result of these fixed to variable interest rate swap transactions, $1,160 million of NiSource Finances existing long term debt is now subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is a factor in many of NiSources business activities. NiSources extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. Written guidelines approved by NiSources Risk Management Committee document the management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation procedures. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the Corporate Credit Risk function which is independent of all commercial operations. Credit risk arises because of the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to pay NiSource the positive fair value or receivable resulting from the execution of contract terms. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions. Current credit exposure is generally measured by the notional or principal value of obligations and direct credit substitutes, such as commitments, stand by letters of credit and guarantees. In determining exposure, NiSource considers collateral that it holds to reduce individual counterparty credit risk. Market Risk Measurement Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a specified position or portfolio. NiSource calculates a one day VaR at a 95% confidence level for the power trading group and the gas marketing group that utilize a variance/covariance methodology. Based on the results of the VaR analysis, the daily market exposure for power trading on an average, high and low basis was zero during 2006. The daily market exposure for the gas marketing and trading portfolios on an average, high and low basis was $0.2 million, $0.9 million and zero during 2006, respectively. Prospectively, management has set the VaR limit at $0.8 million for gas marketing. Exceeding this limit would result in management actions to reduce portfolio risk. The VaR limit for power trading was reduced to zero in the third quarter of 2005 with the settlement of all power trading contracts outstanding at that time. Power and gas derivative contracts entered into to manage price risk associated with Whiting Clean Energy are limited to quantities surrounding the physical generation capacity of Whiting Clean Energy and the gas requirements to operate the facility. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies included in this Item 7 and Note 1 U, Accounting for Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, and Note 8, Risk Management and Energy Trading Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NiSources risk management. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies NiSource applies certain accounting policies based on the accounting requirements discussed below that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on NiSources results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries. SFAS No. 71 provides that rate regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. NiSources rate regulated subsidiaries follow the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 71. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Sheets were $1,563.3 million and $1,551.0 million at December 31, 2006, and $1,203.1 million and $1,386.1 million at December 31, 2005, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 1 F, Basis of Accounting for Rate Regulated Subsidiaries, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for NiSource to recover its costs in the future, all or a portion of NiSources regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of SFAS No. 71. In such event, a write down of all or a portion of NiSources existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under generally accepted accounting principles for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If unable to continue to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 71, NiSource would be required to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 101. In managements opinion, NiSources regulated subsidiaries will be subject to SFAS No. 71 for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, NiSource believes that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets under SFAS No. 71. Regulatory assets requiring specific regulatory action amounted to $68.3 million at December 31, 2006. If NiSource determined that the amounts included as regulatory assets were not recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. Accounting for Risk Management Activities. Under SFAS No. 133 the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and resulting designation. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized each period as components of accumulated other comprehensive income, earnings, or regulatory assets and liabilities depending on the nature of such derivatives. For subsidiaries that utilize derivatives for cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gains and losses are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings concurrent with the disposition of the hedged risks. For fair value hedges, the gains and losses are recorded in earnings each period along with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. As a result of the rate making process, the rate regulated subsidiaries generally record gains and losses as regulatory liabilities or assets and recognize such gains or losses in earnings when both the contracts settle and the physical commodity flows. These gains and losses recognized in earnings are then subsequently recovered in revenues through rates. In order for a derivative contract to be designated as a hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction must be highly effective. The effectiveness test is performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting period thereafter, throughout the period that the hedge is designated. Any amounts determined to be ineffective are recorded currently in earnings. Although NiSource applies some judgment in the assessment of hedge effectiveness to designate certain derivatives as hedges, the nature of the contracts used to hedge the underlying risks is such that there is a high risk correlation of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and the underlying risks. NiSource generally uses NYMEX exchange traded natural gas futures and options contracts and over the counter swaps based on published indices to hedge the risks underlying its natural gas related businesses. NiSource had $287.6 million and $376.0 million of price risk management assets, of which $286.4 million and $338.1 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $297.6 million and $94.5 million of price risk management liabilities, of which $235.3 million and $85.6 million related to hedges, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of unrealized gains recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, was $31.4 million and $150.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Pensions and Postretirement Benefits. NiSource has defined benefit plans for both pensions and other postretirement benefits. The plans are accounted for under SFAS No. 87, SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106, as amended by SFAS No. 158. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, long term returns on plan assets and employee longevity, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. For further 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. discussion of NiSources pensions and other postretirement benefits see Note 11, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Testing. As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had $3.7 billion of goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which was mainly due to the acquisition of Columbia. NiSource performs its annual impairment test of goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 in June. For the purpose of testing for impairment the goodwill recorded in the acquisition of Columbia, the related subsidiaries were aggregated into two distinct reporting units, one within the Gas Distribution Operations segment and one within the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. NiSource uses the discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for the purpose of this test. Refer to Notes 1 J and 5, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long lived Asset Impairment Testing. NiSources Consolidated Balance Sheets contains long lived assets other than goodwill and intangible assets which are not subject to recovery under SFAS No. 71. As a result, NiSource assesses the carrying amount and potential earnings of these assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value could be impaired as per SFAS No. 144. When an assets carrying value exceeds the undiscounted estimated future cash flows associated with the asset, the asset is considered impaired to the extent that the assets fair value is less than its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 K, Long lived Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contingencies. A contingent liability is recognized when it is probable that an environmental, tax, legal or other liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can reasonably be estimated. Accounting for contingencies require significant management judgment regarding the estimated probabilities and ranges of exposure to a potential liability. Estimates of the loss and associated probability are made based on the current facts available, present laws and regulations and third party consultation. Managements assessment of the contingent liability could change as a result of future events or as more information becomes available. Actual amounts could differ from estimates and can have a material impact on NiSources results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 18, Other Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Asset Retirement Obligations. NiSource accounts for retirement obligations under the provisions of SFAS No. 143, as amended by FIN 47, which require entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. In the absence of quoted market prices, fair value of asset retirement obligations are estimated using present value techniques, using various assumptions including estimates of the amounts and timing of future cash flows associated with retirement activities, inflation rates and credit adjusted risk free rates. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes the cost, thereby increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. The rate regulated subsidiaries defer the difference between the amount recognized for depreciation and accretion and the amount collected in rates as required pursuant to SFAS No. 71 for those amounts it has collected in rates or expects to collect in future rates. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 158 Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158 to improve existing reporting for defined benefit postretirement plans by requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, among other changes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, NiSource adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 requiring employers to recognize in the statement of financial position the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. Based on the measurement of the various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans assets and benefit obligations at September 30, 2006, the pretax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 decreased intangible assets by $46.5 million, decreased deferred charges and other assets by $1.1 million, increased regulatory assets by $538.8 million, increased accumulated other comprehensive income by $239.8 million and increased accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by $251.4 million. With the adoption of SFAS No. 158 NiSource determined that for certain rate regulated subsidiaries the future recovery of pension and other postretirement plans costs is probable in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. No. 71. These rate regulated subsidiaries recorded regulatory assets and liabilities that would otherwise have been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, NiSource recorded a reduction in deferred income taxes of approximately $96 million. NiSource will early adopt the SFAS No. 158 measurement date provisions in the first quarter of 2007 requiring employers to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year end. Upon adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS No. 158 in the first quarter of 2007, NiSource will decrease its accrued liabilities for postretirement and postemployment benefits by approximately $89 million and increase its deferred charges and other assets by approximately $9 million. In addition, 2007 expense for pension and postretirement benefits will reflect the updated measurement date valuations. SAB No. 108 Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108 to provide guidance on how prior year misstatements should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements. SAB No. 108 became effective for periods ending after November 15, 2006. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SAB No. 108. SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective transition method. SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, NiSources consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, NiSource applied the intrinsic value method of APB No. 25 for awards granted under its stock based compensation plans and complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. There were no modifications to awards as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. When it adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, NiSource recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $0.4 million, net of income taxes, which reflected the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Other than the requirement for expensing stock options, outstanding share based awards will continue to be accounted for substantially as they are currently. As of December 31, 2006, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested awards amounted to $5.1 million, which will be amortized over the weighted average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years. SFAS No. 154 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 to provide guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections, which is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. SFAS No. 154 establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the newly adopted accounting principle, and for the reporting of an error correction. Effective January 1, 2006, NiSource adopted SFAS No. 154. There were no impacts to NiSources consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 154. FIN 47 Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations and to provide additional guidance for when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation, as used in SFAS No. 143. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. NiSource adopted FIN 47 in the fourth quarter 2005. Refer to Note 6, Asset Retirement Obligations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 to define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and to expand disclosures about fair value measurements. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and should be applied prospectively, with limited exceptions. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement requirements related to accounting for income taxes. Specifically, this interpretation requires that a tax position meet a more likely than not recognition threshold for the benefit of an uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements and requires that benefit to be measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. When determining whether a tax position meets this 50% threshold, it is to be based on whether it is probable of being sustained on audit by the appropriate taxing authorities, based solely on the technical merits of the position. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. NiSource will adopt the provisions of FIN 48 in the first quarter of 2007. NiSource is currently reviewing the provisions of this interpretation to determine the impact it may have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters NiSource affiliates have retained environmental liability, including cleanup liability, associated with some of its former operations including those of propane operations, petroleum operations, certain LDCs and CER. More significant environmental liability relates to former MGP sites whereas less significant liability is associated with former petroleum operations and metering stations using mercury containing measuring equipment. The ultimate liability in connection with the contamination at known sites will depend upon many factors including the extent of environmental response actions required, the range of technologies that can be used for remediation, other potentially responsible parties and their financial viability, and indemnification from previous facility owners. NiSources environmental liability includes those corrective action costs considered probable and reasonably estimable under SFAS No. 5 and consistent with SOP 96 1. NiSources estimated remediation liability will be refined as events in the remediation process occur and actual remediation costs may differ materially from NiSources estimates due to the dependence on the factors listed above. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by product of burning fossil fuels, and methane, a component of natural gas. Certain NiSource affiliates engage in efforts to voluntarily report and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. NiSource is currently a participant in the EPAs Climate Leaders program and will continue to monitor and participate in developments related to efforts to register and potentially regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Bargaining Unit Contract As of December 31, 2006, NiSource had 7,349 employees of which 3,383 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. One agreement, covering approximately 385 employees of Columbia of Kentucky, Columbia of Ohio, and Columbia Transmission Company, expired December 1, 2006. The company and the union reached a tentative agreement for a new five year contract on February 16, 2006, which was then ratified by the collective bargaining unit on February 26, 2007. Fifteen additional collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 656 employees, were to expire during 2007. To date, agreements have been reached and ratified with respect to nine of those agreements. The remaining six agreements, covering approximately 227 employees, expire between May 1, 2007 and August 20, 2007. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information NiSources operations are divided into four primary business segments; Gas Distribution Operations, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations, Electric Operations, and Other Operations. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales Revenues $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 3,277.0 3,617.1 2,850.8 Net Revenues 1,421.6 1,504.9 1,440.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 731.9 721.4 639.5 Depreciation and amortization 231.4 224.6 194.6 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets (0.3 ) 12.5 Other taxes 168.6 178.2 165.3 Total Operating Expenses 1,131.6 1,136.7 999.4 Operating Income $ 290.0 $ 368.2 $ 441.2 Revenues ($ in Millions) Residential $ 2,854.4 $ 3,191.4 $ 2,580.8 Commercial 1,058.8 1,159.4 966.0 Industrial 306.4 362.4 309.8 Off System Sales 415.6 200.1 214.2 Other 63.4 208.7 220.6 Total $ 4,698.6 $ 5,122.0 $ 4,291.4 Sales and Transportation (MMDth) Residential sales 241.8 289.1 288.2 Commercial sales 163.9 176.0 175.7 Industrial sales 365.4 375.8 399.1 Off System Sales 54.9 22.6 34.9 Other 0.9 0.9 1.2 Total 826.9 864.4 899.1 Heating Degree Days 4,347 5,035 4,887 Normal Heating Degree Days 4,933 4,939 4,967 % Colder (Warmer) than Normal (12 %) 2 % (2 %) Customers Residential 3,074,115 3,059,783 3,033,390 Commercial 292,566 292,232 290,702 Industrial 8,268 8,445 8,758 Other 73 59 61 Total 3,375,022 3,360,519 3,332,911 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Competition Gas Distribution Operations compete with investor owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service area, and to a lesser extent with other regulated natural gas utilities and propane and fuel oil suppliers. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity is generally strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia where electric rates are primarily driven by low cost, coal fired generation. In Ohio and Pennsylvania, gas on gas competition is also common. Gas competes with fuel oil and propane in the New England markets mainly due to the installed base of fuel oil and propane based heating which, over time, has comprised a declining percentage of the overall market. Market Conditions Spot prices for the winter of 2006 2007 were primarily in the range of $5.00 $8.00/Dth. This was a significant decrease from the prices experienced during the winter of 2005 2006 that were in the $6.00 $15.00/Dth range, as a result of hurricane related production outages in the Gulf of Mexico. Supply disruptions associated with the 2005 hurricanes were restored by the third quarter of 2006. Entering the 2006 2007 winter season, storage levels were at record high levels. Unseasonably mild weather for the months of November and December 2006 left national storage levels well above the prior five year average. During the summer of 2006, prices ranged between $4.00 and $9.00/Dth. However, gas storage reached above the prior five year average. Through December 2006, the winter of 2006 2007 price levels were primarily between $6.00 and $8.00/Dth. All NiSource Gas Distribution Operations companies have state approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs. Gas costs are treated as pass through costs and have no impact on the net revenues recorded in the period. The gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period and the difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to be included in future customer billings. During times of unusually high gas prices, throughput and net revenue have been adversely affected as customers may reduce their usage as a result of higher gas cost. The Gas Distribution Operations companies have pursued non traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include both the sale of products and services upstream of their service territory, the sale of products and services in their service territories and gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations company and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on system services are offered by NiSource to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations company system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations companies an opportunity to share in the savings created from such things as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and its ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges. The treatment of the revenues generated from these types of transactions vary by operating company with some sharing the benefits with customers and others using these revenues to mitigate transition costs occurring as the result of customer choice programs described below under Regulatory Matters. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Distribution Operations segments net capital expenditures and other investing activities were $283.4 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $333.4 million in 2007. This increase in the capital expenditure budget is mainly due to an expected increase in expenditures for modernizing and upgrading facilities as well as the implementation of a standardized work management system at certain distribution companies as part of a multi year plan. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Kentucky filed a base rate case requesting an increase in rates of $12.6 million, or approximately 8%. Included in the filing is a request for approval of an accelerated main replacement cost recovery mechanism, in order to facilitate replacement of certain parts of Columbia of Kentuckys natural gas distribution system. Also, included are proposals to help offset the effects of 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) recent usage declines and increased customer attrition. Hearings are expected to be held in the second quarter of 2007, with new rates expected to be in effect by the third quarter. On November 2, 2005, Columbia of Virginia filed an Application with the VSCC for approval of a PBR plan, which would freeze non gas cost rates at their current levels for five years beginning January 1, 2006. The VSCC issued a Preliminary Order on November 9, 2005 that docketed the PBR plan and simultaneously initiated an investigation (Investigation) into the justness and reasonableness of Columbia of Virginias current rates, charges and terms and conditions of service. On December 12, 2006, Columbia of Virginia, VSCC Staff and all parties to the proceedings presented a comprehensive settlement resolving all issues in the proceedings. The Hearing Examiner recommended approval of the settlement in a report issued December 21, 2006 and the VSCC approved the settlement by Order issued December 28, 2006. Among other things, the settlement, which became effective January 1, 2007, establishes a PBR for a four year period, freezing Columbia of Virginias non gas rates at their current levels and setting up an earnings sharing mechanism and temporary rate credits during the PBR plan period, and contains a commitment by Columbia of Virginia to expand its system to continue to meet growth needs. On January 31, 2006, the IURC approved a joint Stipulation and Settlement Agreement between Northern Indiana and other parties resolving all terms of a new gas ARP program. The new ARP is effective May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2010. The new ARP continues key products and services including Northern Indianas Choice program for customers. The ARP also continues the GCIM and adds a new incentive mechanism that shares savings of reduced transportation costs between the company and customers. Northern Indiana and the settling parties also agreed to a moratorium on base rates with the ability to address certain defined issues during the term of this agreement. In mid 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition which simplifies gas distribution rates, stabilizes revenues and provides for energy efficiency funding. Northern Indiana filed its detailed case in this proceeding in January 2007, based upon lengthy and detailed discussion with stakeholders. All parties requested and the IURC has granted an expedited schedule in this proceeding. Northern Indiana expects a final order in the cause in the second quarter of 2007. Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the distribution companies revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs via standard regulatory proceedings. All states require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and to permit the recovery of prudently incurred costs related to the supply of gas for customers. NiSource distribution companies have historically been found prudent in the procurement of gas supplies to serve customers. Certain operating costs of the NiSource distribution companies are significant, recurring in nature, and generally outside the control of the distribution companies. Some states allow the recovery of such costs via cost tracking mechanisms. Such tracking mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the distribution companies to implement charges and recover appropriate costs. Tracking mechanisms allow for more timely recovery of such costs as compared with more traditional cost recovery mechanisms. Examples of such mechanisms include gas cost recovery adjustment mechanisms, tax riders, and bad debt recovery mechanisms. Gas Distribution Operations revenue is increased by the implementation and recovery of costs via such tracking mechanisms. Comparability of Gas Distribution Operations line item operating results is impacted by these regulatory trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs such as bad debt expenses. Increases in the expenses that are the subject of trackers result in a corresponding increase in net revenues and therefore have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Operating expenses increased by $50.5 million for expenses which are subject to such trackers and are therefore primarily offset by a corresponding increase to net revenues reflecting recovery of certain costs. Certain of the NiSource distribution companies are embarking upon plans to replace significant portions of their operating systems that are nearing the end of their useful life. Those companies are currently evaluating requests for increases in rates in order to allow recovery of the additional capital expenditures required for such plans. Each 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) LDCs approach to cost recovery may be unique, given the different laws, regulations and precedent that exist in each jurisdiction. Currently, Columbia of Pennsylvania and Columbia of Ohio are evaluating such plans and filings. Certain types of natural gas risers, which are owned by customers, on Columbia of Ohios distribution system have been evaluated under a study required by the PUCO, and have been found to be prone to leak natural gas under certain conditions. On February 1, 2007, Columbia of Ohio announced plans to identify and replace these certain types of risers on its distribution system. Columbia of Ohio estimates that the cost to identify and replace the risers will approximate $200 million, and will be seeking approval to implement an infrastructure replacement program cost recovery mechanism. Customer Usage. The NiSource distribution companies continue to experience declining usage by customers, due in large part to the sensitivity of sales to historically high commodity prices. A significant portion of the LDCs operating costs are fixed in nature. Historically, rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput, rather than in a fixed charge. Many of NiSources LDCs are evaluating mechanisms that would de couple the recovery of fixed costs from throughput, and implement recovery mechanisms that more closely link the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Each of the states that the NiSource LDCs operate in has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing such changes. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Distribution Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Distribution Operations amounted to $3.1 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $1.6 million. In the third quarter of 2006, an adjustment was made to the restructuring reserve for leased office space, reducing the reserve by $5.2 million. This adjustment was made in connection with a reallocation of office space and assessment of office facilities. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Distribution Operations segment. Weather In general, NiSource calculates the weather related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days. Normal is evaluated using heating degree days across the NiSource distribution region. While the temperature base for measuring heating degree days (i.e. the estimated average daily temperature at which heating load begins) varies slightly across the region, the NiSource composite measurement is based on 62 degrees. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2006 was approximately 12% warmer than normal and 14% warmer than 2005, decreasing net revenues by approximately $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. Weather in the Gas Distribution Operations service territories for 2005 was approximately 2% colder than normal and 3% colder than 2004, increasing net revenues by approximately $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Throughput Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 826.9 MMDth, compared to 864.4 MMDth for 2005. This decrease reflected lower sales to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, which was attributable mainly to the milder weather and decreased residential customer usage, partially offset by increased off system sales. 43 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Total volumes sold and transported for the year ended December 31, 2005 were 864.4 MMDth, compared to 899.1 MMDth for 2004. This decrease was primarily due to lower industrial and off system sales. Net Revenues Net revenues for 2006 were $1,421.6 million, a decrease of $83.3 million from 2005. This decrease in net revenues was due primarily to the impact of warmer weather amounting to approximately $89 million and a decline in residential usage of approximately $22 million. Additionally, the prior year was favorably impacted $12.1 million from a buyout of a large customer gas contract. These decreases in net revenues were partially offset by a $46.7 million increase in revenues from regulatory trackers, which are primarily offset in operating expenses. Net revenues for 2005 were $1,504.9 million, an increase of $64.3 million from 2004. Net revenues grew as a result of increased deliveries of natural gas to residential customers due to colder weather during the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 2004 and an increase in residential customers that together amounted to $32.3 million. Net revenues also increased $26.2 million as a result of regulatory trackers and $16.0 million from increases in gross receipts and excise taxes, which are both offset in operating expenses, as well as $12.1 million from the buyout of a large customer gas contract. These increases in revenues were partially offset by a reduction in gas deliveries to residential and commercial customers of approximately $33 million attributable to a decline in usage caused in part by higher gas prices experienced in 2005. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $290.0 million, a decrease of $78.2 million compared to the same period in 2005 largely attributable to reduced net revenues described above. Operating expenses, excluding $50.5 million of tracker expenses primarily offset in revenues, were $55.6 million lower than the prior year. The comparable period last year was impacted by transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and other postretirement benefits charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement, and a $10.9 million goodwill impairment loss related to Kokomo Gas. Operating expenses were impacted this year by higher employee and administrative costs of $11.9 million, expenses associated with the IBM agreement of $8.5 million primarily for transition services and higher depreciation expense of $6.8 million, partially offset by a reversal in the third quarter of a restructuring reserve for leased office space of $5.2 million and lower uncollectible accounts. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income for the Gas Distribution Operations segment was $368.2 million, a decrease of $73.0 million compared to the same period in 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $95.1 million, excluding $42.2 million of tracker expenses offset in revenues, which more than offset the increase in net revenues described above. Operating income decreased as a result of transition costs, restructuring charges and a pension and postretirement benefit charge totaling $49.4 million associated with the IBM agreement. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income was higher depreciation expense of $30.0 million primarily resulting from the 2004 expiration of the prior regulatory stipulation for Columbia of Ohio, a $10.9 million impairment of goodwill that was originally recorded in association with the NiSource acquisition of Kokomo Gas in 1992 and an increase in employee and administrative expenses of $7.4 million. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Revenues Transportation revenues $ 681.6 $ 646.6 $ 668.0 Storage revenues 176.8 177.9 178.2 Other revenues 6.1 10.6 9.0 Total Operating Revenues 864.5 835.1 855.2 Less: Cost of gas sold, excluding depreciation and amortization 14.0 24.6 22.6 Net Revenues 850.5 810.5 832.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 327.4 297.2 301.8 Depreciation and amortization 114.9 114.1 114.2 Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of assets 0.5 (0.1 ) 1.2 Other taxes 54.6 55.1 52.3 Total Operating Expenses 497.4 466.3 469.5 Equity Earnings (Loss) in Unconsolidated Affiliates (12.3 ) 0.2 Operating Income $ 340.8 $ 344.4 $ 363.1 Throughput (MMDth) Columbia Transmission Market Area 932.1 983.9 978.3 Columbia Gulf Mainline 533.5 521.6 539.1 Short haul 129.9 86.3 102.5 Columbia Pipeline Deep Water 8.3 11.5 16.7 Crossroads Gas Pipeline 38.5 41.8 40.5 Granite State Pipeline 26.9 31.8 32.7 Intrasegment eliminations (491.2 ) (504.8 ) (537.1 ) Total 1,178.0 1,172.1 1,172.7 Proposed Millennium Pipeline Project Millennium received FERC approval for a pipeline project, in which Columbia Transmission is participating and will serve as operator, which will provide access to a number of supply and storage basins and the Dawn, Ontario trading hub. The reconfigured project, which was approved by the FERC in a certificate order issued December 21, 2006, will begin at an interconnect with Empire, an existing pipeline that originates at the Canadian border and extends easterly towards Syracuse, New York. Empire will construct a lateral pipeline southward to connect with Millennium near Corning, New York. Millennium will extend eastward to an interconnect with Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. at Ramapo, New York. The certificate order approved the project costs related to the construction and development of the Millennium project as described above. The order also approved the vacating of portions of the original September 2002 Millennium certificate that related to other facilities. The Millennium owners no longer believe the recovery of the capitalized costs related to the vacated portions of the project is probable. Therefore, Millennium has fully reserved the capitalized costs related to the development of the vacated portions. NiSource recorded a $13 million charge reflecting its share of Millenniums reserve during the fourth quarter of 2006. The reconfigured Millennium project relies on completion of some or all of several other related pipeline projects proposed by Empire, Algonquin, Iroquois, and Islander East collectively referred to as the Companion Pipelines. The December 21, 2006 certificate order also granted the necessary project approvals to the Companion Pipelines. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) In addition, Millennium has received requested tax relief in New York. Millennium plans to begin construction in Spring 2007 with a projected in service date of November 1, 2008. In March 2006, Columbia Atlantic Trading, a NiSource subsidiary, sold its 21.0% interest in the Millennium partnership to KeySpan Millennium (owned by KeySpan Corporation) and DTE Millennium (owned by DTE Energy Co.) through an equity redistribution and a re writing of the partnership agreements. The Millennium partnership is now currently made up of the following companies: Columbia Transmission (47.5%), DTE Millennium (26.25%), and KeySpan Millennium (26.25%). Columbia Transmission will be the operator. The FERC Order reflected these reconfigured ownership levels. Hardy Storage Project In November 2004, Columbia Transmission and a subsidiary of Piedmont reached an agreement to jointly develop a major new underground natural gas storage field to help meet increased market demand for natural gas in the eastern United States. Hardy Storage was then formed by Columbia Transmission and Piedmont to develop a natural gas storage field from a depleted natural gas production field in West Virginia. The field, which will have the capacity to store approximately 12 Bcf of natural gas, is expected to be able to deliver 176 MMDth per day of firm storage service on behalf of the subscribing customers. Columbia Transmission and Piedmont each have a 50% equity interest in the project, and Columbia Transmission will serve as operator of the facilities. Both Hardy Storage and Columbia Transmission filed the necessary applications for the projects with the FERC on April 25, 2005, and received favorable orders on November 1, 2005. On October 26, 2006, Hardy Storage filed an application seeking to amend the November 1, 2005 order to revise the initial rates and estimated costs for the project pursuant to executed settlement agreements with Hardy Storages customers. The amendment application is uncontested and Hardy Storage has requested expedited FERC action on the filing by February 28, 2007. On June 29, 2006, Columbia Transmission, Piedmont, and Hardy Storage entered into multiple agreements to finance the construction of Hardy Storage. Under the financing agreement, Columbia Transmission issued guarantees securing payment for amounts issued in connection with Hardy Storage up until such time as the project is placed in service and satisfies certain performance criteria. Additional information on this guarantee is provided in Note 18 C, Guarantees and Indemnities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Construction began in the first quarter of 2006 and Hardy Storage is expected to be placed in service in the second quarter of 2007. Other Growth Projects Eastern Market Expansion, a combined storage and transportation project designed to meet core market growth in the mid Atlantic region that already has binding customer agreements, continues with NEPA pre filing activities. Columbia Transmission anticipates filing a certificate application with the FERC in April 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $208.1 million in 2006 and $167.9 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to incremental pipeline expenditures including pipeline integrity costs in compliance with the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segments capital expenditure program and other investing activities are projected to be approximately $19 million higher in 2007. The increase in capital is due to storage and transportation growth projects in key market areas which are served by the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Pipeline Firm Service Contracts Since implementation of FERC Order No. 636 in the early 1990s, the services of Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf have consisted of open access transportation services, and open access storage services in the case of Columbia Transmission. These services are provided primarily to LDCs. On October 31, 2004, firm contracts expired for both Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf, which represented approximately 60% of the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations net annual revenues. Based upon new commitments, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations realized a reduction of approximately $34 million in revenues in 2005 under the replacement 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) contracts. The terms of the replacement contracts entered into by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf range from one year to 15 years, with an average term of approximately seven years. These reductions were partially offset by incremental revenues of approximately $27 million that resulted from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts during 2005 and 2006. Sales of Shorter Term Transportation and Storage Services Seasonal price fluctuations in the national energy market created opportunities for customers to utilize existing shorter term transportation and storage tariff services provided by Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf. A commercial team is in place focused on this effort to capitalize on market opportunities. Columbia Transmission entered into contracts that represent revenues in excess of $45 million of shorter term business for 2006. Columbia Transmission and Columbia Gulf plan to continue offering these short term transportation and storage services. Customer requirements for these services will vary according to market conditions which include such factors as commodity price volatility, geographic price differentials and the physical capacity and capabilities of the pipeline network. Regulatory Matters Significant FERC Developments. On June 30, 2005, the FERC issued the Order on Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs. This guidance was issued by the FERC to address consistent application across the industry for accounting of the DOTs Integrity Management Rule. The effective date of the guidance was January 1, 2006 after which all assessment costs have been recorded as operating expenses. Importantly, the rule specifically provides that amounts capitalized in periods prior to January 1, 2006 will be permitted to remain as recorded. In November, 2005, the INGAA sought review of the matter before the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (INGAA V. FERC, No. 05 1426). Oral Argument was presented before the Court on January 16, 2007 and a ruling is currently pending. On July 20, 2006, the FERC issued a declaratory order in response to a petition filed by Tennessee Gas Pipeline. The petition related to a Tennessee Gas Pipeline request to establish an interconnection with the Columbia Gulf operated portion of the Blue Water Pipeline system. Columbia Gulf has a long standing practice of providing interconnections with other interstate pipelines only as long as there is an interconnection agreement in place that governs the rules of the interconnection. Among other things, these agreements help protect the integrity of Columbia Gulfs system and the reliability of service to its customers. The FERC ruled that Tennessee Gas Pipelines interconnection request should be governed by the existing Blue Water Pipeline Operating Agreement between Columbia Gulf and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Columbia Gulf constructed the necessary taps and Tennessee Gas Pipeline then completed its portion of the interconnection facilities. The interconnection was ready to flow gas on October 1, 2006. On December 29, 2006, Columbia Gulf filed in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals a Petition for Review of the Commissions July 20, 2006 order and a subsequent order denying Columbia Gulfs Request for Rehearing. In the declaratory order, the FERC also referred the matter to the Office of Enforcement to determine if there should be any action taken against Columbia Gulf for failing to comply with prior orders that directed Columbia Gulf to allow Tennessee Gas Pipeline to make an interconnection. While disappointed with the FERCs referral of this matter to the Office of Enforcement, Columbia Gulf has cooperated with the Office of Enforcements investigation. Columbia Gulf expects the staff will complete its investigation in the near future, but is unable to predict the outcome at this time. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) Restructuring Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Gas Transmission and Storage Operations amounted to $2.8 million during 2006 and the restructuring liability remaining at December 31, 2006 was $2.2 million. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment. Throughput Columbia Transmissions throughput consists of transportation and storage services for LDCs and other customers within its market area, which covers portions of northeastern, mid Atlantic, midwestern, and southern states and the District of Columbia. Throughput for Columbia Gulf reflects mainline transportation services delivered to Leach, Kentucky and short haul transportation services for gas delivered south of Leach, Kentucky. Crossroads serves customers in northern Indiana and Ohio and Granite State Gas provides service in New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts. Intrasegment eliminations represent gas delivered to other pipelines within this segment. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,178.0 MMDth for 2006, compared to 1,172.1 MMDth in 2005. The increase of 5.9 MMDth is due to increased sales of shorter term transportation and storage services described above, partially offset by lower gas deliveries by Columbia Transmission. Throughput for the Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment totaled 1,172.1 MMDth for 2005, compared to 1,172.7 MMDth in 2004. Decreases in offshore natural gas production in the Gulf were offset by increased gas deliveries in the market area serviced by Columbia Transmission. Net Revenues Net revenues were $850.5 million for 2006, an increase of $40.0 million from 2005. The increase in net revenues was mainly due to sales of shorter term transportation and storage services amounting to $43.9 million and increased subscriptions for demand services of $12.8 million. The comparable period last year benefited from a third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract, which amounted to $8.9 million. Net revenues were $810.5 million for 2005, a decrease of $22.1 million from 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the 2004 renegotiation of firm service contracts with major pipeline customers, which amounted to approximately $34 million for the year. Additionally, revenue from regulatory trackers decreased $7.4 million, which is offset in operating expenses. These reductions in net revenues were partially offset by approximately $14 million in increased revenues resulting from remarketing efforts and new firm contracts and by an $8.9 million third party buyout of a bankruptcy claim relating to the rejection of a shippers long term contract. Operating Income Operating income of $340.8 million in 2006 decreased $3.6 million from 2005 primarily due to increased operations and maintenance expenses of $30.2 million and a $12.3 million loss on equity earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries, which offset the increase in net revenues described above. The loss on equity earnings resulted from a $13 million charge reflecting NiSources Gas Transmission and Storage Operations segment share of Millenniums reserve related to vacated portions of the original project. Operation and maintenance expenses increased as a result of $18.1 million accrued for litigation relating to several matters, some which were settled during the fourth quarter, higher employee and administrative costs of $9.4 million, increased pipeline integrity related costs of $7.3 million, and increased property insurance premiums of $6.5 million mainly for offshore and onshore facilities located in or near the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in property insurance were driven by the losses experienced by the insurance industry over the past few years, resulting from hurricanes such as Ivan, Katrina and Rita. The operation and maintenance expense increases were partially offset by the impact in the comparable 2005 period of transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $12.8 million associated with the IBM agreement. Operating income of $344.4 million in 2005 decreased $18.7 million from 2004 due primarily to the reduction in net revenue described above. Operating expenses, excluding savings of $7.4 million of tracker expense offset in revenue, increased $4.2 million as a result of restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement 48 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (continued) benefit charge, and transition costs associated with the IBM agreement that totaled $12.8 million. These increases in operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by a reduction in pension expense. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Sales revenues $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Less: Cost of sales, excluding depreciation and amortization 481.4 452.5 351.0 Net Revenues 822.4 795.1 760.2 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 266.7 263.1 240.0 Depreciation and amortization 187.3 185.9 178.1 Gain on sale of assets (0.4 ) (1.6 ) Other taxes 58.0 53.2 34.2 Total Operating Expenses 512.0 501.8 450.7 Operating Income $ 310.4 $ 293.3 $ 309.5 Revenues ($ in millions) Residential $ 358.2 $ 349.9 $ 295.1 Commercial 365.2 335.0 294.1 Industrial 513.3 445.1 414.1 Wholesale 36.1 35.1 47.0 Other 31.0 82.5 60.9 Total $ 1,303.8 $ 1,247.6 $ 1,111.2 Sales (Gigawatt Hours) Residential 3,293.9 3,516.1 3,104.3 Commercial 3,855.7 3,893.0 3,635.0 Industrial 9,503.2 9,131.6 9,309.4 Wholesale 661.4 831.3 1,176.2 Other 114.1 115.0 142.6 Total 17,428.3 17,487.0 17,367.5 Cooling Degree Days 714 935 582 Normal Cooling Degree Days 803 803 803 % Warmer (Colder) than Normal (11 %) 16 % (28 %) Electric Customers Residential 398,349 395,849 392,342 Commercial 52,106 51,261 50,332 Industrial 2,509 2,515 2,528 Wholesale 5 7 22 Other 759 765 770 Total 453,728 450,397 445,994 Market Conditions The regulatory frameworks applicable to Electric Operations continue to be affected by fundamental changes that will impact Electric Operations structure and profitability. Notwithstanding those changes, competition within the industry will create opportunities to compete for new customers and revenues. Management has taken steps to improve operating efficiencies in this changing environment. The U.S. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased energy costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. The industry has responded with plant consolidation and rationalization to reduce costs and improve their position in the market place. Increased use of advanced technology by U.S. steel producers has lowered production costs and increased productivity, reducing the 50 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) labor differential between international producers and those in the United States. NiSource continued to see strength in industrial sales volumes, up 4% over 2005 levels, due largely to the steel market and related industries. Northern Indiana has identified a need for additional resources to meet its electric customers demand in the coming years. To assess options to meet this need, a Request for Proposal for purchases of power (including renewable energy) and demand reducing options was issued. The bids are to provide power in the short term as well separate bids to provide power in the long term. These bids are being evaluated and compared to other options including building a power plant, acquiring a portion of an existing plant, entering into a natural gas purchase contract to provide low cost gas for power production and restarting the Mitchell Station. No commitment to pursue any specific option or group of options has been made. Management anticipates that the evaluation of options will continue through early 2007. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities The Electric Operations segments capital expenditures and other investing activities were $151.2 million in 2006 and are projected to be approximately $236.8 million in 2007. The increase is due to higher expenditures for the NOx reduction programs and expenditures to replace key components within electric generation. Expenditures for the NOx reduction program were approximately $4 million in 2006 and are budgeted to be approximately $37 million for 2007. Regulatory Matters Significant Rate Developments. To settle a proceeding regarding Northern Indianas request to recover intermediate dispatchable power costs, Northern Indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case on or before July 1, 2008. During 2002, Northern Indiana settled certain regulatory matters related to an electric rate review. On September 23, 2002, the IURC issued an order adopting most aspects of the settlement. The order approving the settlement provides that electric customers of Northern Indiana will receive bill credits of approximately $55.1 million each year, for a cumulative total of $225 million, for the minimum 49 month period, beginning on July 1, 2002. The credits will continue beyond the minimum period at the same annual level and per the same methodology, until the IURC enters a basic rate order that approves revised Northern Indianas electric rates subsequent to the minimum period. The order included a rate moratorium that expired on July 31, 2006. The order also provides that 60% of any future earnings beyond a specified earnings level will be retained by Northern Indiana. The revenue credit is calculated based on electric usage and therefore in times of high usage the credit may be more than the $55.1 million target. Credits amounting to $50.9 million and $58.5 million were recognized for electric customers for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. MISO. As part of Northern Indianas participation in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market, certain administrative fees and non fuel costs have been incurred. IURC Orders have been issued authorizing the deferral for consideration in a future rate case proceeding the administrative fees and non fuel related costs incurred after Northern Indianas rate moratorium, which expired on July 31, 2006. During 2006 the administrative fees totaled $5.5 million. Of this amount, $3.0 million was expensed and $2.5 million was deferred. Non fuel costs were $12.8 million in 2006, of which $11.5 million was expensed and $1.3 million was deferred. On May 4, 2006, the IURC issued a final order authorizing the categorization of certain types of MISO charges as fuel related and therefore recoverable through the FAC mechanism. As a result of this order Northern Indiana realized an increase in net revenues of $7.9 million. On April 25, 2006, the FERC issued an order on the MISOs Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff, stating that MISO had violated the tariff on several issues including not assessing revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on virtual bids and offers and for charging revenue sufficiency guarantee charges on imports. The FERC ordered MISO to perform a resettlement of these charges back to April 1, 2005. Although the amount of resettlements applicable to Northern Indiana cannot be quantified at this time, it is not expected to be material. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Cost Recovery and Trackers. A significant portion of the Northern Indianas revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a standard, quarterly, summary regulatory proceeding in Indiana (FAC). Northern Indiana has historically been found prudent in the procurement of fuel and purchased power. In July 2006, the IURC issued an order creating a sub docket in FAC 71 based upon a motion by interveners, the Industrial Group and La Porte County. The motion requested an investigation into Northern Indianas generation and purchases practices that could not be fully considered in a summary proceeding. The sub docket will also address concerns raised by the OUCC related to the reasonableness of recovering financial hedging transactions within the FAC. Subsequently, the IURC has approved FAC 72 and FAC 73 subject to the sub docket in FAC 71. Amounts collected pursuant to FAC 71, 72 and 73 are subject to refund based upon the final order in the sub docket. On November 26, 2002, Northern Indiana received approval for an ECT. Under the ECT, Northern Indiana is permitted to recover (1) AFUDC and a return on the capital investment expended by Northern Indiana to implement IDEMs NOx State Implementation Plan through an ECRM and (2) related operation and maintenance and depreciation expenses once the environmental facilities become operational through an EERM. Under the IURCs November 26, 2002 order, Northern Indiana is permitted to submit filings on a semi annual basis for the ECRM and on an annual basis for the EERM. On December 13, 2006, the IURC approved Northern Indianas latest compliance plan with the estimate of $312.8 million. On March 29, 2006 the IURC approved EER 3 for operating expenses of $18.3 million through December 31, 2005. On September 28, 2006 the IURC approved ECR 8 for capital expenditure (net of accumulated depreciation) of $226.8 million. Northern Indiana filed ECR 9 and EER 4 on February 7, 2007 for net capital expenditures of $222.2 million and $14.1 million in operating expenses. On December 8, 2006, Northern Indiana filed a petition requesting a certificate of public convenience and necessity for clean coal technology projects, to address the first phase of CAIR and CAMR. The request included initiating ongoing review of the construction of the projects; finding that the projects constitute qualified pollution control property and are eligible for the rate making treatment; finding that the projects constitute clean coal and energy projects and finding that the projects are reasonable and necessary and therefore eligible for the financial incentives; approving accounting, rate making treatment, cost recovery and other relief in connection with Northern Indianas clean coal technology, qualified pollution control property and clean coal and energy projects. Testimony was filed in February 2007 requesting approval of $23 million of cost estimates for the projects. Mitchell Station. In January 2002, Northern Indiana indefinitely shut down its Mitchell Station. In February 2004, the City of Gary announced an interest in acquiring the land on which the Mitchell Station is located for economic development, including a proposal to increase the length of the runways at the Gary International Airport. Northern Indiana, with input from a broad based stakeholder group, is evaluating the appropriate course of action for the Mitchell Station facility in light of Northwest Indianas need for that property and the substantial costs associated with restarting the facility including the potential increase in level of environmental controls required. Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Electric Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Electric Operations segment. Restructuring No amounts for restructuring were recorded in 2006 for Electric Operations. Electric Operations recorded restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2005 in connection with NiSources outsourcing agreement with IBM, of which $4.0 million was allocated from NiSource Corporate Services. Payments made for all restructuring initiatives within Electric Operations were $0.1 million during 2005 and the restructuring liability at December 31, 2005 and 2006, was zero. Refer to Note 3, Restructuring Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding restructuring initiatives for the Electric Operations segment. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Electric Operations (continued) Sales Electric Operations sales were 17,428.3 gwh for the year 2006, a slight decrease of 58.7 gwh compared to 2005, mainly resulting from decreased residential sales due to milder weather. This decrease was partially offset by increased industrial volumes, particularly in the steel sector. Electric Operations sales were 17,487.0 gwh for the year 2005, a slight increase of 119.5 gwh compared to 2004. The increase in sales resulted from higher residential and commercial sales due primarily to warmer weather and a 1% increase in customer count. This increase in sales was partially offset by decreased industrial and wholesale sales. Net Revenues Electric Operations net revenues were $822.4 million for 2006, an increase of $27.3 million from 2005, due to $13.5 million of lower unrecoverable MISO costs included in cost of sales, $10.7 million from proceeds received for emissions allowances, a reduction in customer credits of $7.7 million, due to the timing of the credits, increased environmental tracker revenues of $7.4 million (offset in expense), an increase in residential and commercial customers amounting to approximately $6 million and increased industrial volumes. The lower unrecoverable MISO costs resulted mainly from the IURCs ruling on the recoverability of certain MISO costs as well as the deferral of certain costs for future recovery which began on August 1, 2006. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable weather compared to the prior year of approximately $21 million. Electric Operations net revenues were $795.1 million for 2005, an increase of $34.9 million from 2004, primarily as a result of warmer weather that favorably impacted revenues by $26.8 million compared to the 2004 period, and increased non weather related usage and customer count totaling $24.1 million. Net revenues from environmental trackers also increased $15.3 million, of which $6.4 million is offset in operating expenses. These increases in net revenues were partially offset by net revenue impacts associated with MISO Day 2 costs totaling $15.7 million, $6.6 million reduction in revenue associated with pricing and capacity charges of $5.3 million related to the purchase of power from Whiting Clean Energy. Operating Income Operating income for 2006 was $310.4 million, an increase of $17.1 million from 2005. The increase in operating income was due to the changes in net revenue mentioned above, partially offset by higher operating expenses of $10.2 million. Operating expenses increased due to higher electric generation and maintenance expense of $9.3 million, higher employee and administrative expenses of approximately $3.3 million and $4.8 million in increased other taxes compared to the same period in 2005. The change in operation and maintenance expense was favorably impacted by transition costs, a restructuring charge and a pension and other postretirement benefit charge totaling $8.4 million associated with the IBM agreement made in the comparable 2005 period. Operating income for 2005 was $293.3 million, a decrease of $16.2 million from 2004. The decrease was the result of higher operating expenses of $44.7 million, net of $6.4 million in expenses associated with the operation of NOx equipment, which are fully offset in net revenues. The increase in operating expenses were partially offset by higher net revenues described above. The operation and maintenance expenses increase was due mainly to restructuring charges, including a pension and other post retirement benefit charge, and transition costs associated with outsourcing and the IBM service agreement which totaled $8.4 million, increased electric generating expense of $7.2 million and incremental MISO administrative expenses of $3.5 million. The increase in other tax expense was due mainly to the impact of a $25.1 million reduction in estimated property tax accruals recognized in 2004. Depreciation expense also increased approximately $8 million, of which $4.9 million was due to the operation of NOx equipment that is fully offset in revenue. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenues Other revenue $ 929.9 $ 1,031.8 $ 685.4 Less: Cost of products purchased, excluding depreciation and amortization 893.7 989.7 665.8 Net Revenues 36.2 42.1 19.6 Operating Expenses Operation and maintenance 63.5 37.5 37.9 Depreciation and amortization 9.8 10.5 10.5 Gain on sale of assets (1.2 ) (0.6 ) (2.7 ) Other taxes 4.3 7.0 4.4 Total Operating Expenses 76.4 54.4 50.1 Operating Loss $ (40.2 ) $ (12.3 ) $ (30.5 ) PEI Holdings, Inc. Whiting Clean Energy. On December 18, 2006, Whiting Clean Energy and BP executed Amendment IV which materially amended the terms of the ESA under which Whiting Clean Energy provides steam to BP. The agreement specifies a planned termination of the ESA at the end of 2009, with options for BP to extend the term one additional year under renegotiated steam pricing. Whiting Clean Energy accrued $17.0 million in costs associated with contract termination terms under the agreement. In addition, Amendment IV provides BP an option, valid for 180 days from the Amendments effective date, for BP to purchase the facility free of liens for $100 million. Management believes it is unlikely that BP will exercise this option. The carrying amount of the Whiting Clean Energy facility is approximately $275 million. Because of continued losses from Whiting Clean Energy and the amended terms of the agreement between Whiting Clean Energy and BP (discussed above), an impairment study was performed during 2006. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss shall be recognized only if the carrying amount of a long lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The test compares the carrying amount of the long lived asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. The study indicated that no impairment charge was necessary. The study includes many estimates and assumptions for the 35 year estimated useful life of the facility. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, such as electricity and natural gas forward prices and price volatility, impacts from the terms and options set forth under the definitive agreement with BP as discussed above, and utilization of the facility, could result in a situation where total undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the facility, which would result in a write down that could be significant. Lake Erie Land Company, Inc. In March 2005, Lake Erie Land, wholly owned by NiSource, recognized a pre tax impairment charge of $2.9 million related to the Sand Creek Golf Club property and began accounting for the operations of the golf club as discontinued operations. In June 2006, the assets of the Sand Creek Golf Club, valued at $11.9 million, and additional properties were sold to a private real estate development group. An after tax loss of $0.2 million was recorded in June 2006. As a result of the June 2006 transaction, property estimated to be sold to the private developer during the next twelve months has been recorded as assets held for sale. NDC Douglas Properties NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments. Two of these investments were disposed of during 2006 and three other investments are expected to be sold or disposed of during 2007. An impairment loss of $2.3 million was recorded in the first half of 2006, due to the current book value exceeding the estimated fair value of these investments. NiSource has accounted for the investments to be sold as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. 54 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) NiSource Inc. Other Operations (continued) Environmental Matters Currently, various environmental matters impact the Other Operations segment. As of December 31, 2006, a reserve has been recorded to cover probable environmental response actions. Refer to Note 18 F, Environmental Matters, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters for the Other Operations segment. Net Revenues For the year ended 2006, net operating revenues were $36.2 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2005. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the operation of the Whiting Clean Energy facility partially offset by increased commercial and industrial gas marketing revenues of $2.1 million. For the year ended 2005, net operating revenues were $42.1 million, an increase of $22.5 million from 2004. The increase was primarily due to increased net revenues from Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial marketing customers. Operating Loss The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $40.2 million in 2006, an increased loss of $27.9 million from the 2005 period, due to increased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy, including contract termination costs with BP of $17.0 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2006, and increased scheduled maintenance costs of $7.2 million for Whiting Clean Energy, partially offset by a reduction in uncollectible accounts of $4.0 million and $2.1 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. The Other Operations segment reported an operating loss of $12.3 million in 2005 compared to an operating loss of $30.5 million in the 2004 period. This improvement is the result of decreased losses associated with Whiting Clean Energy and $7.4 million of increased revenues from commercial and industrial gas marketing. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK NiSource Inc. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Disclosures. 56 Table of Contents 
 
