ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of eBays plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. When used in this document, the words expects, anticipates, intends and plans and similar expressions are intended to identify certain of these forward looking statements. The cautionary statements made in this document should be read as being applicable to all related forward looking statements wherever they appear in this document. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this document. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below. Overview About eBay We pioneered online trading by developing a global online trading platform that helps practically anyone buy or sell practically anything. Our service permits sellers to list items for sale, buyers to bid on items of interest and all eBay users to browse through listed items in a fully automated, topically arranged, intuitive and easy to use online service that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following critical accounting policies and estimates should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and other disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. Third party Advertising Revenues Our third party advertising revenue is derived principally from the sale of online banner and sponsorship advertisements for cash and through barter arrangements. To date, the duration of our banner and sponsorship advertising contracts has ranged from one week to three years, but is generally one week to three months. Advertising revenues on both banner and sponsorship contracts are recognized as impressions are delivered (i.e., the number of times that an advertisement appears in pages viewed by users of our websites) or ratably over the term of the agreement where such agreements provide for minimum monthly or quarterly advertising commitments or where such commitments are fixed throughout the term. Barter transactions are valued based on amounts realized in similar cash transactions occurring within six months prior to the date of the barter transaction. To the extent that significant delivery obligations remain at the end of a period or collection of the resulting account receivable is not considered 19 Table of Contents probable, revenues are deferred until the obligation or uncertainties are resolved. Third party advertising revenues, including barter transactions, totaled 1%, 3% and 11% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively. Third party advertising revenues may be affected by the financial condition of our customers and by the success of online promotions in general. Recently, the industry pricing of online advertisements has deteriorated. Our third party advertising revenue is dependent in significant part on the performance of AOL Time Warner, Inc.s, or AOLs, sales force, over which we do not have control. Reduction in third party advertising, whether due to softening of the demand for online advertising in general or particular problems facing parties with whom we have contractual arrangements, would adversely affect our operating results. Unlike our online auction transaction revenues, third party advertising revenues are derived from a highly concentrated customer base. During the year ended December 31, 1999, third party advertising revenues were derived from approximately 10 customers. During the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001, third party advertising revenues were attributable to approximately 20 customers each year. We continue to view our business as primarily transaction driven and we expect third party advertising revenues in future periods to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues, and possibly in absolute dollars. End to End Services and Promotions Revenues Our end to end services and promotions revenues are derived principally from contractual arrangements with third parties that provide transaction services to eBay users. To date, the duration of our end to end services and promotions contracts has ranged from one to three years. End to end services and promotions revenues are recognized as the contracted services are delivered to end users. To the extent that significant obligations remain at the end of a period or collection of the resulting receivable is not considered probable, revenues are deferred until the obligation or uncertainty is resolved. End to end services and promotions revenues were 0%, 7% and 4% of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, respectively. Similar to our third party advertising revenues, our end to end services and promotions revenues may be affected by the financial condition of the parties with whom we have these relationships and by the success of online services and promotions in general. Additionally, end to end services and promotions revenues are also concentrated among a small customer base. During the year ended December 31, 1999, end to end services and promotions revenues were negligible. End to end services and promotions revenues were derived from approximately 10 customers in 2000 and from approximately 20 customers in 2001. We expect end to end services and promotions revenues in future periods to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues and possibly in absolute dollars. Provisions for Doubtful Accounts and Authorized Credits Provisions for doubtful accounts and authorized credits to sellers are made at the time the related revenue is recognized based upon our historical experience. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customer accounts and maintain allowances for probable doubtful account and credit losses. We also perform ongoing evaluations of authorized credits granted to sellers for fee discounts and incomplete services. The provision for doubtful accounts is recorded as a charge to operating expense, while the provision for authorized credits is recorded as a reduction of revenues. Historically, such amounts have been within our expectations. However, unexpected or significant future changes in trends could result in a material impact to future statements of income and cash flows. During the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001, provisions for doubtful accounts and authorized credits totaled $9.3 million, $18.2 million and $25.2 million, respectively. Legal Contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our income statement. These estimates have 20 Table of Contents been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and or future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business, and we do not expect this trend to change in the future. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as discussed in Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that we have meritorious defenses in the claims against us and we will defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against certain actions will be costly and could divert our managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be enjoined from conducting a significant part of our U.S. business. Any such results could materially harm our business and could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Impairment of Long Lived Assets Our long lived assets at December 31, 2001, including property and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets, totaled $142.4 million and $198.6 million, respectively. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges to reduce the carrying amount of these assets. The fair value of long term investments and restricted cash and investments are dependent on the performance of the companies and instruments in which we have invested, as well as the volatility inherent in external markets for these investments. In assessing potential impairment, we consider these factors as well as the forecasted financial performance of our investee companies. If forecasted performance levels are not met or if other events occur, we may have to record additional impairment charges to reduce the carrying amount of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2001, we recognized $16.2 million of impairment losses relating to the impairment in value of certain equity investments. At December 31, 2001, the total value of our equity investments in unconsolidated companies was $26.7 million. See Note 17 Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Income Taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon the taxable income and temporary differences for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws around the world and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We must also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our tax provision in our income statement. Where the change in the valuation allowance relates to the deduction for employee stock option exercises, the change will be reflected as a credit to additional paid in capital. The net deferred tax asset net of a valuation allowance of $129.2 million, totaled $35.2 million at December 31, 2001. Other Significant Matters Impacting the Forecasting of Future Results It is difficult for us to forecast revenues or earnings accurately, and the operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Although accurate revenue forecasts are difficult, we believe that our business is seasonal as many of our users reduce their activities on our website during the Thanksgiving (in the U.S.) and Christmas holidays, during national 21 Table of Contents events and with the onset of good weather. We have historically experienced our strongest quarter of online growth in our first fiscal quarter, although our users shift to more practical items may cause our seasonal patterns to look more like a typical retailer. Both Butterfields and Kruse have significant quarter to quarter variations in their results of operations depending on the timing of auctions and the availability of high quality items from large collections and estates. Butterfields typically has its best operating results in the traditional spring and fall auction seasons and has historically incurred operating losses in the first and third quarters. Kruse typically sees a seasonal peak in operations in the third calendar quarter. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our business may become more pronounced over time and may harm our results of operations in the future. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting net revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expense categories as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expense categories as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. However, we manage our expenses as fixed, variable and discretionary costs. Costs that are largely fixed include employee compensation, facility and site operations. Costs that are largely variable include provisions for doubtful accounts receivable and authorized customer credits, customer support, and Internet connectivity. Costs that allow significant discretion as to timing and amount include marketing and business development promotions, acquisition related costs and business expansion costs. As a general note, we expect costs to increase in absolute dollars across all income statement categories. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, certain data from our consolidated statement of income as a percentage of net revenues. The information contained in the table below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Year Ended December 31, 1999 2000 2001 Net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of net revenues 25.6 22.1 18.0 Gross profit 74.4 77.9 82.0 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 42.8 38.7 33.8 Product development 11.1 12.9 10.1 General and administrative 19.5 16.9 14.1 Payroll expense on employee stock options 0.5 0.3 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 0.5 0.3 4.9 Merger related costs 1.9 0.4 Total operating expenses 75.8 69.7 63.2 Income (loss) from operations (1.4 ) 8.2 18.8 Interest and other income, net 10.6 10.7 5.6 Interest expense (1.0 ) (0.8 ) (0.4 ) Impairment of certain equity investments (2.2 ) Income before income taxes and minority interests 8.2 18.1 21.8 Provision for income taxes (3.8 ) (7.6 ) (10.7 ) Minority interests in consolidated companies (0.1 ) 0.7 1.0 Net income 4.3 % 11.2 % 12.1 % 23 Table of Contents Net Revenues Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Online net revenues: Transactions $ 179,895 94 % $ 348,174 73 % $ 602,671 Third party advertising 2,030 541 % 13,022 544 % 83,853 End to end services and promotions 608 4,959 % 30,756 (9 )% 27,881 Total online net revenues 182,533 115 % $ 391,952 82 % 714,405 Butterfields 31,319 (6 )% 29,405 (14 )% 25,251 Kruse 10,872 (7 )% 10,067 (9 )% 9,165 Total offline net revenues 42,191 (6 )% 39,472 (13 )% 34,416 Total net revenues $ 224,724 92 % $ 431,424 74 % $ 748,821 U.S. net revenues $ 222,130 81 % $ 402,446 58 % $ 634,659 International net revenues 2,594 1,017 % 28,978 294 % 114,162 Total net revenues $ 224,724 92 % $ 431,424 74 % $ 748,821 Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in millions, except percents and per listing amounts) Supplemental Operating Data: Confirmed registered users at end of year 10.0 125 % 22.5 89 % 42.4 Number of items listed 129.6 104 % 264.7 60 % 423.1 Gross merchandise sales $ 2,805 93 % $ 5,422 72 % $ 9,319 Our net revenues result from fees associated with our online and offline services. Online transaction revenue is derived primarily from listing, feature and final value fees paid by sellers, as well as final value fees paid by buyers for premium priced items. In addition, we receive online revenues from third party advertising and end to end services and promotions. Unlike our online auction transactions, third party advertising and end to end services and promotions revenues are highly concentrated among a few customers and are subject to considerable uncertainty. See Risk Factors Our revenue from third party advertising and end to end services and promotions is subject to factors beyond our control and Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Revenue Recognition to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Offline revenue is derived from a variety of sources including seller commissions, buyer premiums, bidder registration fees and auction related services including appraisal and authentication. The successive year over year growth in net revenues from 1999 through 2001, was primarily the result of increased online auction transaction activity, reflected in the growth in the number of registered users, listings and gross merchandise sales. Fee increases in the U.S. on January 31, 2001, and fee increases in various other international locations, combined with the consolidation of revenues from our acquisition of a majority ownership interest in Internet Auction in South Korea, also had a positive impact on revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001. The revenue from our acquisitions of Internet Auction in February 2001, and iBazar S.A. in May 2001, are consolidated and reflected in our net revenues and represent less than 3% of our net revenues during the period from acquisition through December 31, 2001. In September 2001, we exchanged our equity interest in iBazar Com Ltda, a Brazilian subsidiary of iBazar, for a 19.5% interest in MercadoLibre, which is a leading online auction site serving Latin America. The net revenues of MercadoLibre are not consolidated and are not included in our net revenues. 24 Table of Contents Revenues from third party advertising increased primarily as a result of our strategy to increase overall site monetization and through the efforts of AOL Time Warner, Inc., our exclusive advertising sales representative. However, we continue to view our business as primarily transaction driven and we expect third party advertising revenues in future periods to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues, and possibly in absolute dollars. Revenues from end to end services and promotions decreased from 7% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000, to 4% of net revenues for 2001, and include various amounts received from third parties that provide transaction services to eBay users. At this time, we expect end to end services and promotions revenues in future periods to decrease as a percentage of total net revenues and possibly in absolute dollars. International net revenues have grown as a percentage of consolidated net revenues. This growth is primarily the result of strong performance in Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom, and additional revenues from our acquisition of a majority interest in Internet Auction in South Korea. We expect the trend of increasing international net revenues to continue as we continue the development and deployment of our global marketplace. During the year ended December 31, 2001, offline revenues have decreased in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues compared to 2000, primarily as a result of a general softening in the offline auction and high end art markets. We expect that our online business will continue to represent the majority of revenue growth in the foreseeable future. Cost of Net Revenues Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Cost of net revenues $ 57,588 66% $ 95,453 41% $ 134,816 As a percentage of net revenues 26% 22% 18% Cost of net revenues for our online business consists primarily of costs associated with customer support and site operations. Significant cost components include employee compensation and facilities costs for customer support, site operations compensation, Internet connectivity charges, depreciation of on site equipment, payment processing fees, amortization of capitalized website development costs, costs to provide end to end services and promotions and corporate overhead allocations. Cost of net revenues for our offline business consists primarily of employee compensation for auction, appraisal and customer support personnel as well as direct auction costs such as event site rental. Cost of net revenues increased in absolute dollars but decreased as a percentage of net revenues. This increase in absolute dollars was due almost entirely to our online business as we continued to develop and expand our customer support and site operations departments. The increases were primarily the result of personnel costs, depreciation of the equipment required for site operations, software licensing fees, Internet connectivity charges and the increased costs associated with acquired businesses. The decrease in cost of net revenues as a percentage of net revenue resulted from cost management initiatives and lower technology costs in site operations and increases in higher gross margin businesses such as autos, third party advertising and end to end services and promotions. The combined effect of these activities resulted in our cost of net revenues per listing decreasing from $0.44 in 1999 to $0.36 in 2000 and to $0.32 in 2001. We expect the cost of net revenues to increase in absolute dollars and remain generally consistent with 2001 levels as a percentage of net revenues in 2002. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Sales and marketing $ 96,239 73% $ 166,767 52% $ 253,474 As a percentage of net revenues 43% 39% 34% Sales and marketing expenses for both the online and offline businesses comprise primarily employee compensation for our category development and marketing staff, advertising, tradeshow and other promotional costs, certain trust and safety programs and corporate overhead allocations. The successive year over year growth in absolute dollars was primarily the result of growth in online and offline advertising, employee compensation costs, costs associated with the use of outside services and consultants, additional costs associated with acquired businesses, and miscellaneous user and promotional costs. Our online advertising efforts target the acquisition of registered users through promotional agreements with Internet portals and other online service providers, while our offline advertising is spent primarily on television and print media placements. Sales and marketing expenses are expected to increase in absolute dollars, and to decrease as a percentage of net revenues in 2002. See Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies Advertising to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Product Development Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Product development $ 24,847 125% $ 55,863 35% $ 75,288 As a percentage of net revenues 11% 13% 10% Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, payments to outside contractors, depreciation on equipment used for development and corporate overhead allocations. We anticipate that we will continue to devote significant resources to product development in the future as we add new features and functionality to the eBay service. Our product development expenses increased in absolute dollars primarily as a result of an increase in employee compensation costs. We significantly increased the size of our product development staff from 173 in 1999, to 203 in 2000 and to 320 in 2001. Expenses related to contractors and consultants employed within product development as well as maintenance and depreciation costs for equipment used in research and development also increased. The increase in these costs results from the development of additional site features and functionality such as eBay Stores, eBay Checkout, enhanced payment features and expanded search capabilities. Product development expenses are expected to increase in absolute dollars in 2002, as we develop new site features and functionality and continue to improve and expand operations both domestically and internationally. However, we expect product development expenses in 2002 to remain generally consistent with 2001 levels as a percentage of net revenues in 2002. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) General and administrative $ 43,919 66% $ 73,027 45% $ 105,784 As a percentage of net revenue 20% 17% 14% General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, provisions for doubtful accounts, insurance, fees for external professional advisors and corporate overhead allocations. Our general and administrative expenses increased in absolute dollars as a result of growth in employee compensation, provisions for doubtful accounts, fees for professional services and facilities costs to meet the demands of our expanding business, including operations in new countries and the integration of new businesses. We increased the size of our general and administrative staff from 240 in 1999, to 302 in 2000 and to 415 in 2001. This headcount increase helped us strengthen the existing teams in corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, legal and accounting departments as well as in our growing international operations. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in 2002, as we continue to invest in the infrastructure that is necessary to support our business. However, we expect 2002 general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of net revenues. Payroll Expense on Employee Stock Options Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Payroll tax on employee stock options $ 0 100% $ 2,337 4% $ 2,442 As a percentage of net revenues 0% 1% 0% We are subject to employer payroll taxes on employee exercises of non qualified stock options. These employer payroll taxes are recorded as a charge to operations in the period in which such options are exercised and sold based on actual gains realized by employees. Our quarterly results of operations and cash flows could vary significantly depending on the actual period that stock options are exercised by employees and, consequently, the amount of employer payroll taxes assessed. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 1,145 25% $ 1,433 2,453% $ 36,591 As a percentage of net revenues 1% 0% 5% From time to time we have purchased, and we expect to continue purchasing assets or businesses to accelerate geographic expansion, increase the features and functions available to our users and maintain our leading role in online trading. These purchase transactions may result in the creation of intangible assets and lead to a corresponding increase in the amortization expense in future periods. Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased during 2001, primarily from the acquisitions of iBazar and a majority interest in Internet Auction, which were accounted for as purchase business combinations. See Note 3 Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer lists, developed technology, trademarks, other intangible assets and goodwill. Goodwill is the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Intangible assets are being amortized using the straight line method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to fifteen years. 27 Table of Contents In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, which requires business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill. Recorded goodwill and intangible assets will be evaluated against these new criteria and may result in certain intangible assets being subsumed into goodwill, or alternatively, amounts initially recorded as goodwill may be separately identified and recognized apart from goodwill. Effective July 1, 2001, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 that apply to business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. We adopted all remaining provisions of SFAS No. 141 effective January 1, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 141 did not change the method of accounting used in previous business combinations accounted for under the pooling of interest method. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, that requires the use of a non amortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain intangible assets. Under a non amortization approach, goodwill and certain intangible assets will not be amortized as a cost of operations, but instead would be reviewed for impairment and written down and charged to operations only in the periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and certain intangible assets exceed their fair values. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted SFAS No. 142 effective January 1, 2002. Transitional impairments, if any, are not expected to be material, however, impairment reviews may result in future periodic write downs. Merger related Costs Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Merger related costs $ 4,359 (64)% $ 1,550 (100)% $ 0 As a percentage of net revenues 2% 0% 0% Merger related costs were primarily attributed to direct costs associated with mergers accounted for under the pooling of interests method. These amounts consist primarily of professional services, contract and facility termination expenses and various registration and filing fees. Direct costs associated with mergers accounted for under the purchase method are capitalized in determining the purchase price. We incurred direct merger related transaction costs in 1999, related to the mergers with Billpoint, Butterfields, Kruse and alando.de, as well as in 2000 related to the merger with Half.com. Due to the elimination of the pooling of interests method of accounting, merger related costs in future periods will be capitalized as a component of the purchase price. Non Operating Items Interest and Other Income, Net Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Interest and other income, net $ 23,833 94% $ 46,337 (10)% $ 41,613 As a percentage of net revenues 11% 11% 6% Interest and other income, net consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, investments and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses. Our interest and other income, net decreased during 2001 as a result of a lower interest rate environment. Our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.9% in 1999, 4.3% in 2000 and 3.6% in 2001. Although, we maintained higher cash, cash equivalent and investment balances during 2001 as a result of increased operating and financing cash flows, the decrease in interest rates resulted in an overall decline in interest income. We expect that interest and other income, net will decrease despite an increase in our cash balances generated by positive operating cash flows due to expected lower interest rates in 2002. 28 Table of Contents Interest Expense Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Interest expense $ 2,319 45% $ 3,374 (16)% $ 2,851 As a percentage of net revenues 1% 1% 0% Interest expense consists of interest charges on mortgage notes and capital leases. Our interest expense increased in 2000, compared to 1999, as a result of an increase in interest rates related to the variable interest portion of our mortgage notes payable on property owned by our Butterfields subsidiary. The interest expenses decrease in 2001, compared to 2000, was the result of lower interest rates and reduction in outstanding debt balances. We expect that our interest expense will decrease in 2002 in connection with expected lower rates on the floating rate portion of our mortgage notes payable. Impairment of Certain Equity Investments Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Impairment of certain equity investments $ 0 0% $ 0 100% $ 16,245 As a percentage of net revenues 0% 0% 2% During the year ended December 31, 2001, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.2 million relating to the impairment in the fair value of certain equity investments. We expect that the fair value of our equity investments will fluctuate from time to time and future impairment assessments may result in additional charges to our operating results. Provision for Income Taxes Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Provision for income taxes $ 8,472 286% $ 32,725 144% $ 80,009 As a percentage of net revenues 4% 8% 11% Effective tax rate 47% 40% 47% The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate principally due to non deductible expenses related to acquisitions, state taxes, subsidiary losses for which we have provided a benefit and other permanent differences that increase the effective tax rate. These amounts are partially offset by decreases resulting from foreign income with lower effective tax rates and tax exempt interest income. We receive tax deductions from the gains realized by employees on the exercise of certain non qualified stock options for which the benefit is recognized as a component of stockholders equity. We have provided a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets relating to these stock option deductions due to the uncertainties associated with our future stock price and the timing of employee stock option exercises. To the extent that additional stock option deductions are not generated in future years, we will have the ability, subject to carryforward limitations, to utilize $122 million of deferred tax assets that were offset by a full valuation allowance at December 31, 2001, to reduce future income tax liabilities. When recognized, the tax benefit of tax deductions related to stock options are accounted for as a credit to additional paid in capital rather than a reduction of the income tax provision. 29 Table of Contents Minority Interests in Consolidated Companies Percent Percent 1999 Change 2000 Change 2001 (in thousands, except percent changes) Minority interests in consolidated companies $ (102) (3,102)% $ 3,062 145% $ 7,514 As a percentage of net revenue 0% 1% 1% Minority interests in consolidated companies represents the minority investors percentage share of income or losses from subsidiaries in which we hold a majority ownership interest and consolidate the subsidiaries results in our financial statements. For the periods presented, third parties held minority interests in Billpoint, Internet Auction and eBay Japan. The successive year over year increases from 1999 to 2001, are primarily a result of consolidated, but not wholly owned operations that produced net losses. In February 2001, we acquired a majority interest in Internet Auction, a South Korean company. In July 2001, we purchased the outstanding 30% interest in eBay Japan that we did not already own for approximately $1.7 million. In January 2002, we purchased the outstanding 35% interest in Billpoint that we did not already own for $43.5 million (subject to an upward adjustment upon the occurrence, if any, of certain events). See Note 17 Subsequent Events. We expect that minority interests in consolidated companies, in aggregate, will continue to fluctuate in future periods. If the consolidated subsidiaries continue to be unprofitable, the minority interests adjustment on the statement of income will continue to increase our net income by the minority investors share of the subsidiaries net losses. If our less than wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries become profitable, the minority interests adjustment will decrease our net income by the minority investors share of the subsidiaries net income. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Since inception, we have financed operations primarily from net cash generated from operating activities. In addition, we obtained additional financing from the sale of preferred stock and warrants, proceeds from the exercise of those warrants, proceeds from the exercise of stock options and proceeds from our initial and follow on public offerings. During 2001, we were primarily financed by our income from operations and from the proceeds of stock option exercises. Net cash provided by operating activities was $62.9 million in 1999, $100.1 million in 2000, and $252.1 million in 2001. Net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from our net income, non cash charges for depreciation and amortization, tax benefits on the exercise of stock options, other non cash charges and were partially offset by changes in assets and liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities was $603.4 million in 1999, $206.1 million in 2000, and $29.8 million in 2001. The primary use for invested cash in the periods presented was for purchases of property and equipment, purchases of investments, net of maturities and acquisitions. Net cash provided by financing activities was $725.0 million in 1999, $86.0 million in 2000, and $101.5 million in 2001. In 1999, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to our follow on public offering. In 2000 and 2001, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the issuance of common stock associated with stock option exercises. Commitments and Contingencies We had no material commitments for capital expenditures at December 31, 2001, but expect such expenditures to approximate $95 million during 2002, without taking into account any acquisitions. Of the $95 million, approximately $22 million has been allocated for capital expenditures relating to hardware and 30 Table of Contents software for the development of our new platform architecture. The remaining balance will be used primarily for computer equipment, furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements. On March 1, 2000, we entered into a five year lease for general office facilities located in San Jose, California. This five year lease is commonly referred to as a synthetic lease because it represents a form of off balance sheet financing under which an unrelated third party funds 100% of the costs of the acquisition of the property and leases the asset to us as lessee. Under our lease structure, upon termination or expiration, at our option, we must either purchase the property from the lessor for a predetermined amount or sell the real property to a third party. Payments under our lease are based on the $126.4 million cost of the property funded by the third party and are adjusted as the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) fluctuates. Under the terms of the lease agreement, the lease terminates on March 1, 2005, unless extended to September 1, 2006. At any time prior to the final 12 months of the lease term, we may, at our option, purchase the property for approximately $126.4 million. If we elect not to purchase the property, we will undertake to sell the facility to one or more third parties and have guaranteed to the lessor a residual value equal to approximately 88% of the $126.4 million cost of the property. We may also be liable to the lessor for the entire amount of $126.4 million if we default on any of certain lease obligations and financial covenants. If this payment were made, we would then receive title to the property. At December 31, 2001, we had not made a decision with respect to the option we will pursue at the end of the lease term, although it is likely that we will decide to continue to occupy the property. Management believes that the contingent liability relating to the residual value guarantee will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we are required to place $126.4 million of cash and investment securities as collateral for the term of the lease and to maintain certain financial covenants. The cash and investment securities are restricted as to their withdrawal from a third party trustee and are classified as long term restricted cash and investments in the accompanying balance sheet. In the event of a default under the lease, the collateral could be used to pay the purchase price of the property and the lease would be terminated. At December 31, 2001, we were in compliance with our financial covenants under the lease. If our lease were terminated, and we became obligated to pay the purchase price of the land and buildings, we would show the cost as an asset on our balance sheet and our restricted cash and investments position would be reduced by the amount of the purchase price. Currently, we reflect rent payments as an expense on our statement of income. In the event we were required to purchase the land and buildings, our rent expense would cease and we would subsequently record depreciation expense for the buildings over their estimated useful lives. We entered into two interest rate swaps on June 19, 2000 and July 20, 2000, to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on a portion of the floating rate operating lease for our facilities. See Note 6 Derivative Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our San Jose lease consists of approximately 460,000 square feet of office space. As of December 31, 2001, we occupied approximately 230,000 square feet of this total office space for our online businesses and subleased additional space in the facility to third parties. We lease an additional 301,000 square feet of office space for our customer call center in Utah and for the other offices we maintain in the U.S. and abroad. Our other domestic offices are generally located where our domestic subsidiaries are based. Our international offices are generally located where we have international websites. 31 Table of Contents We also have lease obligations under certain other non cancelable operating leases. Future minimum rental payments under all non cancelable operating leases, exclusive of the residual value guarantee on our general office facilities located in San Jose, California, at December 31, 2001 are as follows (in thousands): Year Ending Operating December 31, Leases 2002 $ 12,617 2003 13,065 2004 12,624 2005 3,938 2006 2,141 Thereafter 3,877 Total minimum lease payments $ 48,262 Minimum annual repayments on notes payable and capital leases at December 31, 2001 are as follows (in thousands): Year ending December 31, Total 2002 $ 16,111 2003 2,254 2004 35 2005 39 2006 44 Thereafter 9,636 Total notes payable obligations $ 28,119 From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, we enter into arrangements to purchase online and offline promotions. Such arrangements typically involve minimum purchase commitments with terms ranging from several months to five years. In March 1999 and again in July 2001, we expanded the scope of our strategic relationship with AOL. Under the amended agreement, we were granted a prominent presence featuring eBay as the preferred provider of online trading services on AOLs domestic and international websites. In addition, we have developed a co branded version of our online service for major AOL properties, which prominently features each partys brand. In addition to the co branded sites, we are obligated to pay AOL $93.8 million over the five year term of the contract (as amended) in exchange for online advertising services. We are recognizing these fees as sales and marketing expense as such services are provided. From time to time, we have also entered into incremental, discretionary purchases of advertising from AOL. There were no such discretionary purchases during the year ended December 31, 1999, and such amounts totaled $1.4 million during 2000 and $8.5 million during 2001. In February 2000, we entered a four year marketing agreement with The Walt Disney Company, or Disney, to provide us with online and offline advertising and promotions and develop a co branded version of our online service. Subject to certain Disney performance obligations, we were obligated to pay a minimum of $30 million to Disney over the four year term of the agreement. In August 2001, we amended the terms of the initial agreement and agreed to purchase a minimum of $23.0 million in online and offline promotions through September 2004. We also committed to provide Disney with online advertising on the eBay.com website valued at $3.5 million. Through December 31, 2001, we have recognized $5.1 million in sales and marketing expense associated with the amended agreement. 32 Table of Contents In March 2000, we entered into a marketing and services agreement (as amended) with and purchased a less than 5% equity interest in Autotrader.com LLC, or Autotrader. Under the terms of the marketing and services agreement, we developed the co branded eBay Motors site and Autotrader refers customers desiring an auction pricing format to the co branded site in exchange for a referral fee. Through December 31, 2001, we have paid Autotrader $7.4 million in referral fees that are included in sales and marketing expense. We also committed to incur $32.0 million in marketing and promotion of our service and additional related services offered by Autotrader over the 3.5 year term of the agreement. Through December 31, 2001, we have incurred $15.4 million of this marketing expenditure commitment. During 2001, we entered into a series of marketing and services agreements with Microsoft that obligate us to purchase online advertising promotions, software and related services through September 2003, totaling $8 million. In addition, Microsoft has agreed to purchase online advertising and other services from eBay totaling $7 million over a three year period ending June 2004. Through December 31, 2001, we have recognized $2.1 million in sales and marketing expenses for advertising services received, incurred $1.4 million for Microsoft software products used to support our operations and recognized $4.1 million in revenues for advertising services delivered to Microsoft. Subsequent Events In January 2002, we purchased the outstanding 35% interest in Billpoint held by Wells Fargo Bank for approximately $43.5 million in cash, subject to an upward adjustment upon the occurrence, if any, of certain events. This acquisition increased our ownership of Billpoint to a 100% interest and will be accounted for using the purchase method. In February 2002, we signed a definitive agreement to purchase 100% of NeoCom Technology Co., Ltd., or NeoCom, for cash totaling $9.5 million, subject to certain working capital adjustments. NeoCom provides an online Chinese language marketplace for the trading of goods and services for both individual and business customers in Taiwan. NeoComs corporate office is located in Taipei, Taiwan and the acquisition is expected to close in April 2002. In March 2002, we signed a share purchase agreement to purchase a 38% interest in the outstanding common stock of EachNet, Inc., which is a 33% interest on a fully diluted basis, in exchange for $30.0 million in cash. EachNet provides an online marketplace for trading of goods and services for both individual and business customers in the Peoples Republic of China. We will account for the investment using the equity method of accounting. General We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, and any cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations for the foreseeable future. However, if during that period or thereafter we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flows from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, our business could suffer. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, which requires business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill. Recorded goodwill and intangible assets will be evaluated against these new criteria and may result in intangible assets with indefinite lives being subsumed into goodwill, or alternatively, amounts initially recorded as goodwill may be separately identified and recognized apart from goodwill. Effective July 1, 2001, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 that apply to business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. We adopted all remaining provisions of SFAS No. 141 effective January 1, 2002. The 33 Table of Contents adoption of SFAS No. 141 did not change the method of accounting used in previous business combinations accounted for under the pooling of interest method. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, that requires the use of a non amortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain intangible assets. Under a non amortization approach, goodwill and certain intangible assets will not be amortized as a cost of operations, but instead would be reviewed for impairment and written down and charged to operations only in the periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and certain intangible assets exceed their fair values. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted SFAS No. 142 effective January 1, 2002. Transitional impairments, if any, are not expected to be material, however, impairment reviews may result in future periodic write downs. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, that develops one accounting model for long lived assets that are to be disposed of by sale and expands the scope of discontinued operations. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We adopted SFAS No. 144 effective January 1, 2002. Transitional impairments, if any, are not expected to be material, however, impairment reviews may result in future periodic write downs. 34 Table of Contents Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing eBay. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: our ability to retain an active user base, to attract new users who list items for sale and who purchase items through our service and to maintain customer satisfaction; our ability to keep our websites operational and to manage the number of items listed on our service at a reasonable cost; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; foreign, federal, state or local government regulation, including investigations prompted by items improperly listed or sold by our users; the success of our geographical and product expansion; the introduction of new sites, services and products by us or our competitors; volume, size, timing and completion rate of trades on our websites; consumer willingness to consummate transactions with other users who are not known to them; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions on our websites; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth at a reasonable cost; our ability to successfully integrate and manage our acquisitions, including our purchase of a majority interest in Internet Auction and our acquisition of iBazar in the first half of 2001; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our site or services (such as photo hosting or payments) provided to our users by third parties; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner; our ability to retain key employees in both our online businesses and our acquisitions; our ability to expand our product offerings involving fixed price trading successfully; the ability of our land based auction businesses to acquire high quality properties for auction; the timing, cost and availability of advertising in traditional media and on other websites and online services; the cost and demand for advertising on our own websites; the timing of payments to us and of marketing and other expenses under existing and future contracts; consumer trends and popularity of some categories of items; the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; 35 Table of Contents the continued financial strength of our commercial partners and technology suppliers; the level of use of the Internet and online services; increasing consumer acceptance of the Internet and other online services for commerce and, in particular, the trading of products such as those listed on our websites; and general economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet and e commerce industries. Our limited operating history and the increased variety of services offered on our sites, makes it difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and a substantial portion of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions for items that are listed and sold during that quarter. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We may not maintain profitability. We believe that our continued profitability will depend in large part on our ability to do the following: maintain sufficient transaction volume to attract buyers and sellers; manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated with maintaining and developing our websites, customer support and international and product expansion; increase our brand name awareness; and provide our customers with superior community and trading experiences. We are investing heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support, further development of our websites, technology and operating infrastructure development. The costs of these investments are expected to remain significant into the future. In addition, many of our acquisitions require continuing investments in these areas and we have significant ongoing contractual commitments in some of these areas. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. The existence of several larger and more established companies that are enabling online sales as well as newer companies, some of whom do not charge for transactions on their sites and others who are facilitating trading through other pricing formats (e.g., fixed price, reverse auction, group buying, etc.) may limit our ability to raise user fees in response to declines in profitability. In addition, we are spending in advance of anticipated growth, which may also harm our profitability. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business and our limited operating history, we believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely upon our historical results as indications of our future performance. Acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses, including our acquisitions of Half.com, Internet Auction, iBazar and HomesDirect.com and may in the future acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: diversion of management time (at both companies) during the period of negotiation through closing and further diversion of such time after closing, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues of integration and future products; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; 36 Table of Contents the need to integrate each companys accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; and in some cases, the need to transition operations onto the existing eBay platform. Prior to the four acquisitions we made in the second quarter of 1999, we had almost no experience in managing this integration process. Many of our acquisitions to date have involved either family run companies or very early stage companies, which may worsen these integration issues. Foreign acquisitions involve special risks, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures, currency risks and the particular economic and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions may not be realized. Future acquisitions or mergers could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Even if available, this financing may be dilutive. There are many risks associated with our international operations . In 1999, we acquired alando.de.ag, a leading online German trading platform, and began operations in the United Kingdom and, through a joint venture, in Australia. In the first quarter of 2000, we expanded into Japan and formally launched our localized Canadian operations. In October 2000, we launched our French site. In January 2001, we launched our Italian site. In February 2001, we completed our acquisition of a majority interest in Internet Auction, and in May 2001, we completed our acquisition of iBazar, a French company with online trading operations in eight countries, primarily in Europe. In February 2002, we announced the acquisition of NeoCom in Taiwan. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources. We have limited experience in localizing our service to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. In most countries, we will have to compete with local companies who understand the local market better than we do. We may not be successful in expanding into international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. Even if we are successful, the costs of operating new sites are expected to exceed our net revenues for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand internationally, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: regulatory requirements, including regulation of auctions, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in local jurisdictions, may prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, may prohibit certain categories of goods or may limit the transfer of information between our foreign subsidiaries and ourselves; legal uncertainty regarding liability for the listings of our users, including less Internet friendly legal systems, unique local laws and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices and problems in collecting accounts receivable; local taxation of transactions on our websites; higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs; stronger local competitors; more stringent consumer and data protection laws; cultural non acceptance of online trading; 37 Table of Contents seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Some of these factors may cause our international costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. To the extent we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Disputes between our Korean subsidiary, Internet Auction, and credit card companies may harm our operations in Korea. The credit card companies providing payment services to our majority owned Korean subsidiary, Internet Auction, have experienced higher than anticipated delinquency rates on transactions carried out on the Internet Auction platform. Some of these delinquencies are related to fictitious transactions on Internet Auction and other Korean Internet sites to enable users to receive cash advances on their credit cards that would not otherwise be permitted by the credit card companies. As of December 31, 2001, the credit card companies had withheld approximately 3.4 billion Won (about $2.6 million) as collateral against certain delinquent accounts, and had threatened to terminate their agreements with Internet Auction if matters were not resolved to their satisfaction. Beginning in the spring of 2001, Internet Auction has been putting into place certain user verification and site monitoring processes that it believes have substantially reduced this type of credit card misuse on its system. The credit card companies are requesting that Internet Auction enter into new agreements that could shift the risk of credit card misuse, nonpayment or chargeback by the purchaser to Internet Auction and would formalize the ability of the credit card companies to withhold collateral against future delinquencies. Internet Auction is currently in negotiations with the credit card companies to resolve this situation. If these negotiations are not successful, termination of its agreements with the credit card companies would adversely affect Internet Auctions business and could adversely impact eBays business. Any settlement related to past transactions could adversely affect Internet Auctions results of operations. Proposed legislation now pending in the Korean legislature, would, if enacted, make Internet Auction liable for credit card misuses by its users. If Internet Auction becomes liable for credit card misuse or failure to pay by its users, Internet Auction may have to change its procedures and processes relating to payments, accept higher losses, or both, which could adversely affect its business and could thereby adversely affect our business. Our revenue from third party advertising and end to end services and promotions is subject to factors beyond our control and is expected to decrease. We are receiving revenues from end to end service providers and direct advertising promotions. These revenues may be affected by the financial condition of the parties with whom we have these relationships and by the success of online promotions generally. Recently, the pricing of online advertisements has deteriorated. Our direct advertising revenue is dependent in significant part on the performance of AOLs sales force, over which we do not have control. These revenues have become increasingly important to us. Reduction in these revenues, whether due to the softening of the demand for online advertising in general or particular problems facing parties with whom we have commercial relationships, would adversely affect our results. At this time, we expect such revenues to decrease as a percentage of total revenue, and possibly on an absolute basis, in 2002 relative to 2001. Problems with third parties who provide services to our users could harm us. A number of third parties provide services to our users which indirectly benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, photo hosting, payment processing and other services. In many cases we have contractual agreements with these companies which may give us a direct financial interest in their success, in other cases we have none. In either circumstance, financial, regulatory or other problems that 38 Table of Contents prevent these companies from providing services to our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites and thereby harm our business. Our failure to manage growth could harm us. We currently are experiencing a period of expansion in our headcount, facilities and infrastructure, and we anticipate that further expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and number of listings as well as our expansion into new geographic areas, types of goods and alternative methods of sale. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: The Websites. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries websites and the new products and features we are regularly introducing. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites increases the cost of additional enhancements. If we are unable to increase the capacity of our systems at least as fast as the growth in demand for this capacity, our websites may become unstable and may cease to operate for periods of time. We are commencing a significant multiyear project to enhance our current technical architecture. If this project is not successful, our business could be harmed. We have experienced periodic unscheduled downtime. Continued unscheduled downtime would harm our business and also could anger users of our websites and reduce future revenues. Customer Support. We are expanding our customer support operations to accommodate the increased number of users and transactions on our websites and the increased level of trust and safety activity we provide worldwide. If we are unable to provide these operations in a cost effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, and current and future revenues could suffer, or our operating margins may decrease. Customer Accounts. Our revenues are dependent on prompt and accurate billing processes. If we are unable to grow our transaction processing abilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed, our ability to collect revenue will be harmed. We must continue to hire, train and manage new employees at a rapid rate. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. We may be unable to hire, train, retain and manage required personnel or to identify and take advantage of existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. Our business may be harmed by the listing or sale by our users of illegal items. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users on their service is currently unsettled. We are aware that certain goods, such as firearms, other weapons, adult material, tobacco products, alcohol and other goods that may be subject to regulation by local, state or federal authorities, have been listed and traded on our service. We may be unable to prevent the sale of unlawful goods, or the sale of goods in an unlawful manner, by users of our service, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our service. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In order to reduce our exposure to this liability, we have prohibited the listing of certain items and increased the number of personnel reviewing questionable items. In the future, we may implement other protective measures that could require us to spend substantial resources and or to reduce revenues by discontinuing certain service offerings. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to the sale of unlawful 39 Table of Contents goods or the unlawful sale of goods, could harm our business. In addition, we have received significant and continuing media attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods on our websites. This negative publicity could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand name. It also could make users reluctant to continue to use our services. Our business may be harmed by the listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items. We have received in the past, and we anticipate we will receive in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third party copyrights, trademarks and tradenames or other intellectual property rights. Although we have sought to work actively with the content community to eliminate infringing listings on our websites, some content owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners have been active in defending their rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of third party intellectual property rights have in the past and may in the future result in litigation against us. Such litigation is costly for us, could result in increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, could require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, or could otherwise harm our business. Litigation against other online companies could result in interpretations of the law that could also require us to change our business practices or otherwise increase our costs. Our business may be harmed by fraudulent activities on our websites. Our future success will depend largely upon sellers reliably delivering and accurately representing their listed goods and buyers paying the agreed purchase price. We have received in the past, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, communications from users who did not receive the purchase price or the goods that were to have been exchanged. In some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. While we can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their delivery obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to require users to make payments or deliver goods or otherwise make users whole other than through our limited buyer protection programs. Other than through these programs, we do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users. We also periodically receive complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our service could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand name. We expect to continue to receive requests from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified and may be higher in some non U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. This sort of litigation could be costly for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or could otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies who could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. On January 29, 1999, we received initial requests to produce certain records and information to the federal government relating to an investigation of possible illegal transactions in connection with our websites. We were informed that the inquiry includes an examination of our practices with respect to these transactions. We have continued to provide further information in connection with this ongoing inquiry. In order to protect the investigation, the court has ordered that no further public disclosures be made with respect to the matter. On March 24, 2000, Butterfields received a grand jury subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice requesting documents relating to, among other things, changes in Butterfields seller commissions and buyer premiums and discussions, agreements or understandings with other auction houses, in each case since 1992. We believe this request may be related to a publicly reported criminal case against certain auction houses for price fixing. We have provided the information requested in the subpoena. 40 Table of Contents Should these or any other investigations lead to civil or criminal charges against us, we would likely be harmed by negative publicity, the costs of litigation, the diversion of management time and other negative effects, even if we ultimately prevail. Our business would suffer if we were not to prevail in any actions like these. Even the process of providing records and information can be expensive, time consuming and result in the diversion of management attention. A large number of transactions occur on our websites. We believe that government regulators have received a substantial number of consumer complaints about us, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, we have from time to time been contacted by various foreign, federal, state and local regulatory agencies and been told that they have questions with respect to the adequacy of the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, the resultant investigations and potential fines or other penalties could harm our business. We are subject to laws relating to the use and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users and their transfers, especially outside of the U.S. Violation of these laws, which in many cases apply not only to third party transfers but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries and our commercial partners could subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and could adversely affect our company. Third parties or governmental agencies may view our behavior as anti competitive. Third parties have in the past and may in the future allege that actions taken by us violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such claims typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us, all of which would adversely affect us. We have provided information to the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice in connection with an inquiry into our conduct with respect to auction aggregators including our licensing program and a previously settled lawsuit against Bidders Edge. Although the Antitrust Division has closed this inquiry, if the Department of Justice or any other antitrust agency were to open other investigations of our activities, we would likely be harmed by negative publicity, the costs of the action, possible private antitrust lawsuits, the diversion of management time and effort and penalties we might suffer if we ultimately were not to prevail. Some of our businesses are subject to regulation and others may be in the future. Both Butterfields and Kruse are subject to regulation in some jurisdictions governing the manner in which live auctions are conducted. Both are required to obtain licenses in these jurisdictions with respect to their business or to permit the sale of specific categories of items (e.g., wine, automobiles and real estate). These licenses generally must be renewed regularly and are subject to revocation for violation of law, violation of the regulations governing auctions in general or the sale of the particular item and other events. If either company was unable to renew a license or had a license revoked, its business would be harmed. In addition, changes to the regulations or the licensure requirements could increase the complexity and the cost of doing auctions, thereby harming us. As our activities and the types of goods listed on our site expand, state regulatory agencies may claim that we are subject to licensure in their jurisdiction, either with respect to our services in general, or in order to sell certain types of goods (e.g., real estate, boats, automobiles, etc.). We are currently subject to potential regulation under the Office of Banks and Real Estate, or OBRE, in Illinois concerning the applicability of the Illinois Auction law to our services. We are working with OBRE to determine the scope of its regulatory efforts. Regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly litigation or could require us to change our manner of doing business in ways that increase our costs or reduce our revenues 41 Table of Contents or force us to prohibit listings of certain items for some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. As we have expanded internationally, we have become subject to additional regulations, including regulations on the transmission of personal information. These laws may require costly changes to our business practices. If we are found to have violated any of these laws, we could be subject to fines or penalties, and our business could be harmed. Our business may be subject to sales and other taxes. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes on goods or services sold by users through our service. One or more states or any foreign country may seek to impose sales or use tax collection or record keeping obligations on companies such as ours that engage in or facilitate online commerce. Several proposals have been made at the state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of e commerce, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. In 1998, the U.S. federal government enacted legislation prohibiting states or other local authorities from imposing new taxes on Internet commerce for a period of three years, which has been extended through November 1, 2003. This moratorium does not prohibit states or the Internal Revenue Service from collecting taxes on our income, if any, or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. A successful assertion by one or more states or any foreign country that we should collect sales or other taxes on the exchange of merchandise on our system would harm our business. Companies that handle payments, including our subsidiaries Billpoint, Half.com and Internet Auction, may be subject to additional regulation. The Half.com business model involves the handling of payments by buyers for the items listed by Half.coms sellers. Internet Auction also has a business model involving the handling of payments by buyers. Billpoint handles its customer funds as a provider of Internet payment solutions. Businesses that handle consumers funds are subject to numerous regulations, including those related to banking, credit cards, escrow, fair credit reporting, privacy of financial records and others. Billpoint is a new business with a relatively novel approach to facilitating payments. It is not yet known how regulatory agencies will treat Billpoint. We recently have received inquiries from Oregon, California, Louisiana and Illinois asking us to explain why we are not subject to various money transmitter laws and other laws in those states. We are currently discussing the applicability of these laws with the relevant state authorities. We will register Billpoint if it is determined that such registration is necessary. The cost and complexity of Billpoints business may increase if certain regulations are deemed to apply to its business. On October 26, 2001, President Bush signed into law the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti Terrorist Financing Act of 2001. This Act increases the penalties for failure to register under state payment related laws and imposes new requirements on the entities regulated as financial institutions. The applicability and interpretation of the Acts provisions to Billpoint is not clear, but should the Act apply to Billpoint, the penalties for noncompliance are severe and, if triggered, would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to the need to comply with these regulations, Billpoints business is also subject to risks of fraud, the need to grow systems and processes rapidly if its products are well received, a high level of competition, including larger and better financed competitors and the need to coordinate systems and policies among itself, us and Wells Fargo Bank, which is Billpoints backend provider of payment services. Similarly, Half.com may be subject to certain regulations regarding payments and the cost and complexity of its business may increase if these regulations are deemed to apply to its business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated 42 Table of Contents through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability upon us under a number of these theories have been brought against us. In addition, federal, state and foreign legislation has been proposed that imposes liability for or prohibits the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, it is possible that a claim of defamation or other injury could be made against us for content posted in the Feedback Forum. Claims like these are more likely and have a higher probability of success in jurisdictions outside the U.S. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources and or to discontinue certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this liability or asserted liability could harm our business. We are subject to intellectual property and other litigation. On April 25, 2000, we were served with a lawsuit, Gentry et.al. v. eBay, Inc. et.al, filed in Superior Court in San Diego, California. The lawsuit was filed on behalf of a purported class of eBay users who purchased allegedly forged autographed sports memorabilia on eBay. The lawsuit claims we were negligent in permitting certain named (and other unnamed) defendants to sell allegedly forged autographed sports memorabilia on eBay. In addition, the lawsuit claims we violated California unfair competition law and a section of the California Civil Code, which prohibits dealers from selling sports memorabilia without a Certificate of Authenticity. The lawsuit seeks class action certification, compensatory damages, a civil penalty of ten times actual damages, interest, costs and fees and injunctive relief. On January 26, 2001, the court issued a ruling dismissing all claims against us in the lawsuit. The court ruled that our business falls within the safe harbor provisions of 47 USC 230, which grants Internet service providers such as eBay immunity from state claims based on the conduct of third parties. The court also noted that we were not a dealer under California law and thus not required to provide certificates of authenticity with autographs sold over our site by third parties. The plaintiffs have appealed this ruling. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. On April 25, 2001, our European subsidiaries, eBay GmbH and eBay International AG, were sued by Montres Rolex S.A. and certain Rolex affiliates (Rolex) in the regional court of Cologne, Germany. The suit has been moved to the regional court in Dusseldorf, Germany. Rolex alleged that our subsidiaries were infringing Rolexs trademarks as result of users selling counterfeit Rolex watches through our German website. The suit also alleges unfair competition. Rolex is seeking an order forbidding the sale of Rolex watches on the website as well as damages. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against this claim and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. On September 26, 2001, a complaint was filed by MercExchange LLC against us, our Half.com subsidiary and ReturnBuy, Inc. in the Eastern District of Virginia (No. 2:01 CV 736) alleging infringement of three patents (relating to online auction technology, multiple database searching and electronic consignment systems) and seeking a permanent injunction and damages (including treble damages for willful infringement). We have answered this complaint, denying the allegations, and we believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against this action will be costly and could divert our managements time. If the plaintiff were to prevail on any of its claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be enjoined from practicing a significant part of our U.S. business. Any such results could materially harm our business. Other third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may claim in the future that we have infringed their past, current or future intellectual property rights. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may become more vulnerable to such claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act are interpreted by the courts and as we expand into jurisdictions where the 43 Table of Contents underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries like ourselves is less favorable. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to copyright and trademark infringement claims as the geographical reach of our services expands. We also expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as our services expand. These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays, require expensive changes in our methods of doing business or could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims could harm our business. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the ultimate resolution of these other disputes will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The inability to expand our systems may limit our growth. We seek to generate a high volume of traffic and transactions on our service. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain large numbers of users. Our revenues depend primarily on the number of items listed by users, the volume of user transactions that are successfully completed and the final prices paid for the items listed. We need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure both to meet increased traffic on our site and to implement new features and functions, including those required under our contracts with third parties. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our service or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely fashion. We use internally developed systems to operate our service for transaction processing, including billing and collections processing. We must continually improve these systems in order to accommodate the level of use of our websites. In addition, we may add new features and functionality to our services that would result in the need to develop or license additional technologies. We capitalize hardware and software costs associated with this development in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and include such amounts in property and equipment. Our inability to add additional software and hardware or to upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could have adverse consequences. These consequences include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of the users experiences of our service and delays in reporting accurate financial information. Our failure to provide new features or functionality also could result in these consequences. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or to integrate smoothly any newly developed or purchased technologies with our existing systems. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand our business. Unauthorized break ins or other assaults on our service could harm our business. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, public release of confidential data or the inability to complete customer transactions. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. We have experienced an unauthorized break in by a hacker who has stated that he could, in the future, damage or change our system or take confidential information. We have also experienced denial of service type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. These and other types of attacks could harm us. Actions of this sort may be very expensive to remedy and could damage our reputation and discourage new and existing users from using our service. System failures could harm our business. Our system has been designed around industry standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. The eBay service provides 24 hours a day, seven days a week availability, subject to a maintenance period during one night each week. Substantially all of our system 44 Table of Contents hardware is hosted at the Exodus facilities in Santa Clara, California, the Qwest Communications facilities in Sunnyvale, California, and or the Sprint Communications facilities in Sacramento, California, each of which provide redundant communications lines and emergency power backup. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and to potential disruption if the operators of these facilities have financial difficulties. In early 2002, Cable and Wireless plc acquired substantially all of Exoduss data center assets under Exoduss Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. We expect that these data center assets, now owned by Cable and Wireless plc, will continue to be branded using the Exodus name. We do not maintain fully redundant systems or alternative providers of hosting services, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using without adequate notice for financial reasons or other unanticipated problems at any of the Exodus, Qwest or Sprint facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by Exodus, Qwest or Sprint to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service will reduce our revenues and profits, and our future revenues and profits will be harmed if our users believe that our system is unreliable. We have experienced system failures from time to time. Our primary website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a flood of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service results in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our system. These steps are expensive, reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Our stock price has been and may continue to be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to be extremely volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; unscheduled system downtime; additions or departures of key personnel; announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries; changes in the market valuations of other Internet companies; developments in Internet regulation; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; unanticipated economic or political events; sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and other events or factors, including these described in this Risk Factors section and others that may be beyond our control. In addition, the trading prices of Internet stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent periods. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Notwithstanding a sharp decline in the prices of Internet stocks in general, the valuation of our stock remains extraordinarily high based on 45 Table of Contents conventional valuation standards such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. The trading price of our common stock has increased enormously from the initial public offering price. This trading price and valuation may not be sustained. Negative changes in the publics perception of the prospects of Internet or e commerce companies have in the past and may in future depress our stock price regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock. In the past, following declines in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted. Litigation of this type, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign, federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business on the Internet. Today there are relatively few laws specifically directed towards online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, many laws relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels (both in the U.S. and abroad) and it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws was adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Unions Directive on Distance Selling, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and scope are, therefore, uncertain. In addition, numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters is located, have regulations regarding how auctions may be conducted and the liability of auctioneers in conducting such auctions. No final legal determination has been made with respect to the applicability of the California regulations to our business to date and little precedent exists in this area. Several states are considering imposing these regulations upon us or our users, which could harm our business. We are currently subject to potential regulation under the Office of Banks and Real Estate, or OBRE, in Illinois concerning the applicability of the Illinois Auction law to our services. We are working with OBRE to determine the scope of its regulatory efforts. In addition, as the nature of the products listed by our users change, we may become subject to new regulatory restrictions, such as licensure as an auto dealer or real estate broker. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission also has settled several proceedings regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. Specific statutes intended to protect user privacy have been passed in many non U.S. jurisdictions, including virtually every non U.S. jurisdiction where we currently have a website. Compliance with these laws, given the tight integration of our systems across different countries and the need to move data to facilitate transactions amongst our users (e.g., to payment companies, shipping companies, etc.), is both necessary and difficult. Failure to comply could subject us to lawsuits, fines, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to address these issues could directly affect the way we do business or could create uncertainty on the Internet. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. For example, a French court has recently ruled that a U.S. website must comply with French laws regarding content. As we have expanded our international activities, we have become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Laws regulating Internet companies outside of the 46 Table of Contents U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners and users. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings relative to those in the U.S. Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from fines to bans on our ability to offer our services. Our business has been seasonal. Our results of operations historically have been somewhat seasonal in nature because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites during the Thanksgiving (in the U.S.) and Christmas holidays and with the onset of good weather. We have historically experienced our strongest quarter of online growth in our first fiscal quarter, although our shift to more practical items may cause our seasonal patterns to look more like a typical retailer. Both Butterfields and Kruse have significant quarter to quarter variations in their results of operations depending on the timing of auctions and the availability of high quality items from large collections and estates. Butterfields typically has its best operating results in the traditional fall and spring auction seasons and has historically incurred operating losses in the first and third quarters. Kruse typically sees a seasonal peak in operations in the third quarter. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our business may become more pronounced over time and may harm our results of operations in the future. We are dependent on the continued growth of online commerce. The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly through online trading, is new and dynamic. Our future net revenues and profits will be substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance of the Internet and online services as a medium for commerce by consumers. Rapid growth in the use of and interest in the Internet and online services is a recent phenomenon. This acceptance and use may not continue. Even if the Internet is accepted, concerns about fraud, privacy and other problems may mean that a sufficiently broad base of consumers will not adopt the Internet as a medium of commerce. In particular, our websites require users to make publicly available personal information that some potential users may be unwilling to provide. These concerns may increase as additional publicity over privacy issues on eBay or generally over the Internet increase. Market acceptance for recently introduced services and products over the Internet is highly uncertain, and there are few proven services and products. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel. Our future performance also will depend on our ability to retain and motivate our other officers and key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We do not have long term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies, and many of our senior officers will fully vest the majority of their equity incentives within the next twelve months. Our new businesses are all dependent on attracting and retaining key personnel. The land based auction businesses are particularly dependent on specialists and senior management because of the relationships these individuals have established with sellers who consign property for sale at auction. We have had some turnover of these personnel, and continued losses of these individuals could result in the loss of significant future business and would harm us. In addition, employee turnover and other labor problems frequently increase during the period following an acquisition as employees evaluate possible changes in compensation, culture, reporting relationships and the direction of the business. These labor issues may be more severe if employees receive no significant financial return from the acquisition transaction, as has been the case with several of our recent acquisitions. Such increased turnover could increase our costs and reduce our future revenues. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and 47 Table of Contents motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers and other professionals, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices are substantially above current market prices. Terrorist acts. The September 11 terrorist attacks adversely affected our revenues and profits, particularly in the U.S. and in the weeks immediately following these attacks. Any further terrorist actions, whether in the U.S. or elsewhere, would likely adversely affect our business. In particular, any action that makes consumers less willing to purchase or receive goods from third parties they do not know could disproportionately and adversely affect our business. Our offline auction businesses need to continue to acquire auction properties. The businesses of Butterfields and Kruse are dependent on the continued acquisition of high quality auction properties from sellers. Their future success will depend in part on their ability to maintain an adequate supply of high quality auction property, particularly fine and decorative arts and collectibles and collectible automobiles, respectively. There is intense competition for these pieces with other auction companies and dealers. In addition, a small number of key senior management and specialists maintain the relationships with the primary sources of auction property and the loss of these individuals could harm the businesses of Butterfields and Kruse. Our offline auction businesses could suffer losses from price guarantees, advances or rescissions of sales. In order to secure high quality auction properties from sellers, Butterfields and Kruse may give a guaranteed minimum price or a cash advance to a seller, based on the estimated value of the property. If the auction proceeds are less than the amount guaranteed, or less than the amount advanced and the seller does not repay the difference, the company involved will suffer a loss. In addition, under certain circumstances a buyer who believes that an item purchased at auction does not have good title, provenance or authenticity may rescind the purchase. Under these circumstances, the company involved will lose its commissions and fees on the sale even if the seller, in accordance with the terms and conditions of sale, in turn accepts back the item and returns the funds he or she received from the sale. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. In connection with the acquisitions of Kruse and Butterfields, we acquired real property including land, buildings and interests in partnerships holding land and buildings. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in which the properties are located, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, partners or others. 48 Table of Contents Our market is intensely competitive. Depending on the category of product, we currently or potentially compete with a number of companies serving particular categories of goods as well as those serving broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future as the barriers to entry into these channels are relatively low, as current offline and new competitors can easily launch online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available software. Our broad based competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount and general merchandise stores, emerging online retailers, online classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. These include most prominently: Wal Mart, Kmart, Target, Sears, Macys, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sams Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network/ HSN.com. In addition, we face competition from local, regional and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of our categories of products. For example: Antiques: Christies, eHammer, Sothebys, Phillips (LVMH), antique dealers and sellers Coins & Stamps: Collectors Universe, Heritage, US Mint, Bowers and Morena Collectibles: Franklin Mint, Go Collect, Collectiblestoday.com, wizardworld.com, Russ Cochran Comic Art Auctions, All Star Auctions Musical Instruments: Guitar Center, Sam Ash, Mars Music, Gbase.com, Harmony Central.com, musical instrument retailers Sports Memorabilia: Becketts, Collectors Universe, Mastro, Leylands, ThePit.com, Superior Toys, Bean Bag Plush: Amazon.com, KB Toys, ZanyBrainy.com, Wal Mart.com Premium Collectibles: Christies, DuPont Registry, Greg Manning Auctions, iCollector, Lycos/ Skinner Auctions, Millionaire.com, Phillips (LVMH), Sothebys, other premium collectibles dealers and sellers Automotive (used cars): Autobytel.com, AutoVantage.com, AutoWeb.com, Barrett Jackson, CarPoint, Cars.com, Collectorcartraderonline.com, eClassics.com, Edmunds, CarsDirect.com, Hemmings, imotors.com, vehix.com, newspaper classifieds, used car dealers Books, Movies, Music: Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, Barnesandnoble.com, Alibris.com, Blockbuster, BMG, Columbia House, Best Buy, CDNow, Express.com, Emusic.com, Tower Records/ Tower Records.com Clothing: Bluefly.com, Dockers.com, FashionMall.com, The Gap, J. Crew, LandsEnd.com, The Limited, Macys, The Mens Wearhouse, Ross Computers & Consumer Electronics: Best Buy, Buy.com, Circuit City, Compaq, CompUSA, Dell, Frys Electronics, Gateway, The Good Guys, MicroWarehouse, Radio Shack, Shopping.com, 800.com, Computer Discount Warehouse, PC Connection, computer, consumer electronics and photography retailers Home & Garden: IKEA, Crate & Barrel, Home Depot, Pottery Barn, Ethan Allen, Frontgate, Burpee.com Jewelry: Ashford.com, Mondera.com, Bluenile.com, Diamond.com, Macys Pottery & Glass: Just Glass, Pottery Auction, Go Collect Sporting Goods/ Equipment: dsports.com, FogDog.com, Footlocker, Gear.com, Global Sports, golfclubexchange, MVP.com, PlanetOutdoors.com, Play It Again Sports, REI, Sports Authority, Sportsline.com Tickets: Ticketmaster, Tickets.com, ticket brokers 49 Table of Contents Tool/ Equipment/ Hardware: Home Depot, HomeBase, Amazon.com, Ace Hardware, OSH Business to Business: Ariba, BidFreight.com, Bid4Assets, BizBuyer.com, bLiquid.com, Buyer Zone, CloseOutNow.com, Commerce One, Concur Technologies, DoveBid, FreeMarkets, Iron Planet, labx.com, Oracle, Overstock.com, PurchasePro.com, RicardoBiz.com, Sabre, SurplusBin.com, Ventro, VerticalNet Additionally, we face competition from various online commerce sites including: Amazon.com, Surplus Auction, uBid, Yahoo! Auctions and a large number of other regional and national companies engaged in consumer to consumer or business to consumer sales. Overseas, we face competition from similar channels in most countries and from a large number of regional and national online and offline competitors in each country. Different aspects of our fixed priced business compete with the major Internet portals (AOL, MSN, Yahoo! and comparable companies outside the U.S.) as well as Amazon.com and others. The principal competitive factors for eBay include the following: ability to attract buyers; volume of transactions and selection of goods; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion and interaction; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; website convenience and accessibility; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. Some current and potential competitors have longer company operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet spaces than we do. Some of these competitors also have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. Other online trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well established and well financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brand. Some of our competitors have offered services for free, and others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could harm our business. For example, we have implemented a buyer protection program that generally insures items up to a value of $200, with a $25 deductible, for users with a non negative feedback rating at no cost to the user. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a lower cost service. Some Internet based applications that direct Internet traffic to certain websites may channel users to electronic commerce services that compete with us. Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our service. In addition, 50 Table of Contents companies that control access to transactions through network access or Internet browsers could promote our competitors or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Although Billpoints business is focused primarily on providing a payment solution for eBay users, several new companies also provide their payment services both to our users and to a much broader range of customers, such as online and offline businesses. Some of these competitors compete aggressively by offering free services and significant promotional incentives. These competitors include large companies, including banks and credit card companies, who are beginning to enter this space and have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name recognition and or a larger base of customers than we have. These include: c2it offered by Citigroup; Yahoo! PayDirect offered by Yahoo!; PayPal, Inc.; Check Free; ProPay; Amazon.com Payments; Payingfast; SendMoneyOrder.com; and MoneyZap and BidPay offered by Western Union. We also compete with traditional payment methods, which are used by a majority of our customers, such as credit cards, checks, money orders and Automated Clearing House (ACH) transactions. Half.com competes directly with online and offline retailers in its product categories such as Amazon.com, which offers a directly competitive service, as well as with traditional offline and online sellers of new and used books, videos and CDs, consumer electronics, sporting goods and other products. The offline auction business is intensely competitive. Butterfields competes with two larger and better known auction companies, Sothebys Holdings, Inc. and Christies International plc, as well as numerous regional auction companies. To the extent that these companies increase their focus on the middle market properties that form the core of Butterfields business or in the western U.S., its business may suffer. Kruse is subject to competition from numerous regional competitors. In addition, competition with Internet based auctions may harm the land based auction business. Our business is dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our service will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased number of users or bandwidth requirements or by viruses, worms and similar programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the level of traffic and the processing transactions on our service. Our business is subject to online commerce security risks. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent security breaches could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. Billpoints users routinely provide credit card and other financial information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. A number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may 51 Table of Contents need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our competitive space is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. These characteristics are worsened by the emerging and changing nature of the Internet. Our future success therefore will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service. Our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. New technologies, such as the development of a peer to peer personal trading technology, could adversely affect us. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. We need to develop new services, features and functions in order to expand. We plan to expand our operations by developing new or complementary services, products or transaction formats or expanding the breadth and depth of services. We may be unable to expand our operations in a cost effective or timely manner. Even if we do expand, we may not maintain or increase our overall acceptance. If we launch a new business or service that is not favorably received by consumers, it could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand. We anticipate that future services will include pre trade and post trade services. We are pursuing strategic relationships with third parties to provide many of these services. Because we use third parties to deliver these services, we may be unable to control the quality of these services, and our ability to address problems if any of these third parties fails to perform adequately will be reduced. Expanding our operations in this manner also will require significant additional expenses and development, operations and other resources and will strain our management, financial and operational resources. The lack of acceptance of any new services could harm our business. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brand. We believe that our historical growth has been largely attributable to word of mouth. We have benefited from frequent and high visibility media exposure both nationally and locally. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brand will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our service. Promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide high quality services. In order to promote our brand, we will need to increase our marketing budget and otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among users. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we do attract new users to our service, they may not conduct transactions over our service on a regular basis. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our business would be harmed. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade dress and trade secret laws and through the domain name dispute resolution system. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our 52 Table of Contents employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and the other steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent third party development of similar technologies. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, trade dress, trade secret and domain name protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. Protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. Furthermore, we must also protect our trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We also rely on certain technologies that we license from third parties, such as Oracle Corporation, IBM, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, Inc. These third party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The loss of these technologies could require us to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost. Some anti takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents, short term and long term investments in a variety of securities, including government and corporate obligations and money market funds. These securities are generally classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of estimated tax. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating rate securities generally are subject to less interest rate risk than fixed rate securities, floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2001, our fixed income investments had an unrealized gain of $2.2 million with a pretax yield of approximately 3.4% and a weighted average maturity of 4 months. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the fair market value of the total investment portfolio could decrease (increase) by approximately $3.0 million. Assuming an average investment balance of $1 billion, if rates were to increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, this would translate to an increase (decrease) in interest income of approximately $10 million annually. We entered into two interest rate swaps on June 19 and July 20, 2000, totaling $95 million to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on a portion of the floating rate operating lease for our primary office facilities. The interest rate swaps allow us to receive floating rate receipts based on LIBOR in exchange for making fixed rate payments which effectively changes our interest rate exposure on our operating lease from a floating rate to a fixed rate on $95 million of the total $126.4 million notional amount of our operating lease commitment. Of the $126.4 million operating lease commitment for our San Jose facility, the interest rate is fixed on $95 million with the balance of $31.4 million remaining at a floating rate of interest based on the spread over 3 month LIBOR. See Item 2 Properties and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If the 3 month LIBOR rates were to increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, then our lease payments would increase (decrease) by $78,000 per quarter. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to equity price risk on the marketable portion of equity investments we hold, typically as the result of strategic investments in third parties, are subject to considerable market risk due to their volatility. We typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure in these equity investments. As of December 31, 2001, the reported amount of our equity investments included a net unrealized gain of $148,000, net of tax. In accordance with our policy to assess whether an impairment loss on our investments has occurred due to declines in fair value and other market conditions, we determined that declines in fair value of certain of our marketable and non marketable equity investments were other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2001, relating to the other than temporary impairment in the fair value of certain equity investments. Foreign Currency Risk International net revenues result from transactions in our foreign subsidiaries and are typically denominated in the local currency of each country. These subsidiaries also incur most of their expenses in the local currency. Accordingly, all foreign subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. 54 Table of Contents Our international business is subject to risks typical of an international business, including, but not limited to differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. These financial statements are typically denominated in the functional currency of the foreign subsidiary in order to centralize foreign exchange risk with the parent company. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in preparing our consolidated financial statements. As exchange rates vary, these results, when translated, may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected profitability. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on eBay for the year ended December 31, 2001, was a translation loss of approximately $5.8 million. This loss is recognized as an adjustment to stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2001, we had one outstanding forward foreign exchange contract to purchase Euros equivalent to $17.7 million with a maturity date of April 2, 2002. The forward contract is used as an economic hedge of a liability denominated in Euros. Transaction gains and losses on the contract and the hedged liability are recognized each period in the statement of income and generally offset one another. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of the forward contract was immaterial. 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If the 3 month LIBOR rates were to increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, then our lease payments would increase (decrease) by $78,000 per quarter. Equity Price Risk We are exposed to equity price risk on the marketable portion of equity investments we hold, typically as the result of strategic investments in third parties, are subject to considerable market risk due to their volatility. We typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure in these equity investments. As of December 31, 2001, the reported amount of our equity investments included a net unrealized gain of $148,000, net of tax. In accordance with our policy to assess whether an impairment loss on our investments has occurred due to declines in fair value and other market conditions, we determined that declines in fair value of certain of our marketable and non marketable equity investments were other than temporary. Accordingly, we recorded impairment charges totaling $16.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2001, relating to the other than temporary impairment in the fair value of certain equity investments. Foreign Currency Risk International net revenues result from transactions in our foreign subsidiaries and are typically denominated in the local currency of each country. These subsidiaries also incur most of their expenses in the local currency. Accordingly, all foreign subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. 54 Table of Contents Our international business is subject to risks typical of an international business, including, but not limited to differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors. These financial statements are typically denominated in the functional currency of the foreign subsidiary in order to centralize foreign exchange risk with the parent company. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in preparing our consolidated financial statements. As exchange rates vary, these results, when translated, may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected profitability. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on eBay for the year ended December 31, 2001, was a translation loss of approximately $5.8 million. This loss is recognized as an adjustment to stockholders equity through other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2001, we had one outstanding forward foreign exchange contract to purchase Euros equivalent to $17.7 million with a maturity date of April 2, 2002. The forward contract is used as an economic hedge of a liability denominated in Euros. Transaction gains and losses on the contract and the hedged liability are recognized each period in the statement of income and generally offset one another. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of the forward contract was immaterial. 
 
