FILE:WY/WY-8K-20020813125052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 12, 2002, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release stating the following:
 Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today sent its written Certification of Financial Statements to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and William C. Stivers, executive vice president and chief financial officer, executed the certification.
The certification affirms the accuracy of Weyerhaeuser's Form 10-K report for 2001; Form 10-Q report for the first quarter for 2002; the company's 2002 proxy statement to shareholders and other recent filings. These actions are in response to a June 27 order by the SEC requiring approximately 950 companies to certify the accuracy of financial reports.
The company's fiscal reports filed with the SEC are available at www.weyerhaeuser.com by clicking on the "Investors" button.
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2001, sales were $14.5 billion. It has offices or operations in 18 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The two statements are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 12, 2002
Table of Contents

(Exhibit 99.1) STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Steven R. Rogel, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Weyerhaeuser Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 of Weyerhaeuser Company; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Weyerhaeuser Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this /s/Steven R. Rogel 12 day of August 12, 2002 August 2002. /s/Vicki A. Merrick Notary Public My Commission Expires: June 16, 2004

(Exhibit 99.2) STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, William C. Stivers, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Weyerhaeuser Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 of Weyerhaeuser Company; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Weyerhaeuser Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this /s/ William C. Stivers 12 day of August 12, 2002 August 2002. /s/ Vicki A. Merrick Notary Public My Commission Expires: June 16, 2004


