FILE:WY/WY-8K-20051221171729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
SIGNATURES EXHIBIT 99.1 EXHIBIT 99.2
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
ITEM 2.05. COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES
     (a) On December 15, 2005, the Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company approved the permanent closure of two paper machines, a containerboard machine, four corrugated packaging plants, two corrugated sheet feeder plants and a retail paper bag plant. The closures are intended to strengthen shareholder returns and sharpen the focus of the company's business portfolio and are part of the company's comprehensive strategy to focus its portfolio of businesses and facilities to position the company for long-term profitability and success.
The affected assets include:
     (b) The company estimates that it will record net pre-tax charges by major category in the following range:
 
     In October, the company recognized a pre-tax charge of $371 million as a result of the decision to indefinitely close the Prince Albert pulp and paper operations and the impairment of the Big River sawmill. The company plans to recognize a $10 million pre-tax gain for the curtailment of a pension plan that covers Prince Albert employees in December. In addition, the Company expects to recognize other pre-tax charges associated with the closure decisions disclosed above in December. As a result, the company expects to recognize total net pre-tax charges of $511 million to $542 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 related to the events disclosed above.
     (c) The total estimated range of net pre-tax charges in connection with the closure decisions disclosed above is $523 million to $556 million. The following table presents the estimated pre-tax charges by facility:
     Detail by facility is as follows:
 
     (d) The company estimates that cash expenditures relating to the closures will be in the following range:
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Weyerhaeuser Permanently Closes Paper Machines
To strengthen shareholder returns and sharpen the focus of its business portfolio, Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today announced the permanent closures of two paper machines.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash. 
Weyerhaeuser said this will result in a pre-tax charge of $380-385 million in the fourth quarter.
"We recognize that this news and its timing are hard on our people, but market conditions leave us no choice as we make urgent changes to improve the competitiveness and lagging financial performance of this business," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We are in the process of implementing a comprehensive strategy to focus our portfolio of businesses and facilities to improve returns to shareholders and position Weyerhaeuser for long-term profitability and success. As a result of our ongoing strategic review, we anticipate future changes."
Today's announcement includes the permanent closure of:
In response to fundamental market challenges, Weyerhaeuser has recently announced the closure of a specialty pulp mill and sawmill in Washington, the converting operations of a box plant in California, a plywood mill in Oklahoma, and the divestiture of its composite panels businesses.
 
Weyerhaeuser Permantently Closes Paper Machines Page 2
Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY), one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2004, sales were $22.7 billion. It has offices or operations in 19 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at http://.
www.weyerhaeuser.com

 
Exhibit 99.2
News Release
Weyerhaeuser Announces Containerboard Machine,
Packaging and Bag Plant Closures
To strengthen shareholder returns and sharpen the focus of its business portfolio, Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today announced a number of sales and closures in its containerboard, packaging and paper bag businesses.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash. 
The company said this will result in a fourth-quarter pre-tax charge of $115-135 million,.
"We recognize that this news and its timing are hard on our people, but it is essential to make these changes to improve the competitiveness and lagging financial performance of these businesses," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We are in the process of implementing a comprehensive strategy to refine our portfolio of businesses and facilities to improve returns to shareholders and position Weyerhaeuser for long term profitability and success. As a result of our ongoing strategic review, we anticipate future changes."
Today's announcement confirms the permanent closure of the 350,000-ton-per-year containerboard machine in Plymouth, N.C. On Nov. 29, Weyerhaeuser announced plans for an indefinite curtailment of production at the facility after concluding that the containerboard machine no longer is economically sustainable. Approximately 200 employees are affected by the decision.
The following packaging facilities will be closed during the next few months:
Additionally, the company is offering for sale three corrugated sheet plants in Little Rock, Ark.; Memphis, Tenn.; and Shreveport, La.; and a specialty packaging plant in Valley View, Ohio.
"These actions support our strategy of matching supply to demand and serving customers from our most efficient, cost-effective facilities," Rogel said.
 
Weyerhaeuser will support those affected with transition benefits, and is meeting with the employees or their union representatives, as appropriate, to discuss the effects of the decisions.
In response to fundamental market challenges, Weyerhaeuser has recently announced the indefinite closure of a pulp and paper facility in Saskatchewan, a paper machine in Ontario, a market pulp mill and sawmill in Washington, the converting operations of a box plant in California, a plywood mill in Oklahoma, and the divestiture of its composite panels businesses.
Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY), one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2004, sales were $22.7 billion. It has offices or operations in 19 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at http:.
//www.weyerhaeuser.com


