FILE:WY/WY-8K-20050721060107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On July 21, 2005, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release stating the following:
Weyerhaeuser Reports Second Quarter Net Earnings of $420 Million, or $1.71 Per Diluted Share, on Net Sales of $5.8 Billion
 Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported second quarter net earnings of $420 million, or $1.71 per diluted share, on net sales of $5.8 billion. This compares with $369 million, or $1.57 per diluted share, on net sales of $5.7 billion for the second quarter of 2004.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Second quarter 2005 earnings include the following after-tax items:
Second quarter 2004 earnings included the following after-tax items:
"This year's overall results are good, despite conditions that were more difficult than second quarter of last year," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We're pleased with this short-term performance, but we also recognize that many of our businesses face significant long-term challenges. We remain focused on finding ways to enhance the earnings performance of our entire portfolio, regardless of market conditions."
SUMMARY OF SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR SECOND QUARTER (Contributions to Pre-Tax Earnings)
Table of Contents
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
TIMBERLANDS
Second quarter earnings increased slightly from the first quarter due primarily to higher domestic log prices. Export prices were flat quarter to quarter. Fee harvest was down slightly.
Third quarter earnings are expected to be slightly lower than the second quarter, due to reduced harvest and sales activity from normal seasonal shutdowns. Export prices are expected to be modestly higher, but not enough to offset anticipated declines in domestic log prices.
WOOD PRODUCTS
Earnings increased significantly from first quarter due primarily to higher shipment volumes for all core product lines. The overall effect of price on earnings quarter to quarter was minor, with higher prices for engineered wood products offset by lower prices in oriented strand board and plywood. Average lumber prices realized were flat. Second quarter earnings included $18 million in pre-tax charges related to litigation.
The segment incurred $27 million in countervailing and anti-dumping duties and related costs on Canadian softwood lumber the company sold into the United States in the second quarter, compared with $22 million in the first quarter.
Prices for commodity building products are expected to drop seasonally in the third quarter. Shipment volumes are expected to be flat. As a result, third quarter earnings are expected to decline to a level closer to the first quarter.
Table of Contents
CELLULOSE FIBER AND WHITE PAPERS (Formerly Pulp and Paper)
Segment earnings declined slightly from first quarter, due primarily to scheduled maintenance downtime and higher chip, chemical and freight costs.
Fluff pulp pricing improved during the quarter. Oversupply and weak demand in Europe resulted in lower papergrade pulp prices and shipment volumes. Fine paper prices improved in all major product lines and sales volume increased modestly.
Price declines are expected for papergrade pulp and fine paper product lines in the coming months. However, the company expects that minimal scheduled maintenance downtime will result in lower costs and higher third quarter earnings.
CONTAINERBOARD, PACKAGING AND RECYCLING
Earnings increased over first quarter levels primarily due to a seasonal increase in box shipments and lower manufacturing costs at the containerboard mills. Lower manufacturing costs were due primarily to increased production in the second quarter when compared to first quarter. The first quarter included a pre-tax charge of $12 million associated with the settlement of a linerboard antitrust lawsuit and $4 million for costs associated with the closure of a packaging facility in Bowling Green, Ky.
The company expects third quarter earnings to decrease as both containerboard and box prices are currently under pressure.
REAL ESTATE AND RELATED ASSETS
Earnings declined as expected from the prior quarter as contributions from land sales declined $36 million. Single-family home closings and average prices increased. The backlog of homes sold, but not closed, represents approximately six months' sales.
The company's key real estate markets continue to be strong and Weyerhaeuser expects single-family closings to remain steady in the third quarter.
OTHER
The company will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. PDT (10 a.m. EDT) on July 21 to discuss the second quarter results.
To access the conference call, listeners calling from within North America should dial 1-888-221-5699 at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the conference call. Those wishing to access the call from outside North America should dial 1-706-643-3795. Replays of the call will be available for 48 hours following completion of the live call and can be accessed at 1-800-642-1687 (access code: 7576930) within North America and at 1-706-645-9291 (access code: 7576930) from outside North America.
The call may also be accessed through Weyerhaeuser's Internet site at .
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
Table of Contents
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2004, sales were $22.7 billion. It has offices or operations in 19 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at: .
http://www.weyerhaeuser.com
This news release contains statements concerning the company's future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects," "may," "will," "believes," "should," "approximately," anticipates," "estimates," and "plans," and the negative or other variations of those terms or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward-looking statements deal with expectations regarding the company's markets in the third quarter; expected earnings and performance of the company's business segments during the third quarter, demand and pricing for the company's products in the third quarter, supply, raw material and freight costs, reduced timber harvest in the third quarter, maintenance downtime, and land and new home sales. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to, the effect of general economic conditions, including the level of interest rates and housing starts; market demand for the company's products, which may be tied to the relative strength of various U.S. business segments; energy prices; performance of the company's manufacturing operations; the successful execution of internal performance plans; the level of competition from domestic and foreign producers; the effect of forestry, land use, environmental and other governmental regulations; fires, floods and other natural disasters; disruption of transportation and legal proceedings. The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar; and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and dumping duties imposed on the company's softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 21, 2005


