FILE:WY/WY-8K-20050214162358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
. On April 13, 2004 Weyerhaeuser Company shareholders approved the Weyerhaeuser Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan") which terminates on April 13, 2013. The 2004 Plan provides for the award of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and stock units, and performance shares and performance units. The 2004 Plan replaces the Company's 1998 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and 1992 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (collectively, the "Prior Plans"). No further grants may be made under the Prior Plans on and after April 13, 2004. No more than 17,000,000 shares may be issued under the 2004 Plan (subject to adjustment for a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, merger and the like). Shares available for issuance under the 2004 Plan will be increased by any shares subject to outstanding awards under the Prior Plans April 13, 2004, that cease to be subject to such awards, which shares ceased, as of April 13, 2004, to be available for grant and issuance under the Prior Plans, but are available for issuance under the 2004 Plan.
2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan
A copy of the 2004 Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, to which reference is made for a full statement of its terms and provisions.
. On January 1, 2004, the Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company approved amendments to the Weyerhaeuser Company Management Incentive Plan (the "MIP"). The MIP provides for cash incentive awards to the participants in the MIP based on the performance of the company, their organization and their own performance.
Management Incentive Plan
A copy of the MIP is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, to which reference is made for a full statement of its terms and provisions.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
     10.1 Weyerhaeuser Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan
     10.2 Weyerhaeuser Company Management Incentive Plan
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 14, 2005
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Approved by Shareholders April 13, 2004
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
SECTION 1. PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT 1 1.1 Purpose 1 1.2 Replacement Plan 1 SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS 1 SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION 6 3.1 Administration of the Plan 6 3.2 Administration and Interpretation by Committee 6 SECTION 4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 7 4.1 Authorized Number of Shares 7 4.2 Share Usage 8 4.3 Limitations 8 SECTION 5. ELIGIBILITY 9 SECTION 6. AWARDS 9 6.1 Form and Grant of Awards 9 6.2 Evidence of Awards 9 6.3 Deferrals 9 SECTION 7. OPTIONS 10 7.1 Grant of Options 10 7.2 Option Exercise Price 10 7.3 Terms of Options 10 7.4 Exercise of Options 10 7.5 Payment of Exercise Price 10 7.6 Post-Termination Exercise 11 7.7 Incentive Stock Options 11 SECTION 8. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 12 8.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights 12 8.2 Payment of SAR Amount 12 SECTION 9. RESTRICTED STOCK AND STOCK UNITS 12 9.1 Grant of Restricted Stock and Stock Units 12 9.2 Issuance of Shares 13 9.3 Dividends and Distributions 13 SECTION 10. PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS 13 10.1 Grant of Performance Shares 13 10.2 Grant of Performance Units 13 SECTION 11. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 14 11.1 Awards Subject to Performance Goals 14 11.2 Use and Calculation of Performance Criteria 14 SECTION 12. OTHER STOCK OR CASH BASED AWARDS 14 SECTION 13. WITHHOLDING 15 SECTION 14. ASSIGNABILITY 15 SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 15
i
15.1 Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan 16 15.2 Term of the Plan 16 15.3 Consent of Participant 16 SECTION 16. GENERAL 16 16.1 No Individual Rights 16 16.2 Issuance of Shares 16 16.3 No Rights as a Shareholder 17 16.4 Compliance with Laws and Regulations 17 16.5 Participants in Other Countries 17 16.6 No Trust or Fund 17 16.7 Successors 18 16.8 Severability 18 16.9 Choice of Law 18 16.10 Treatment of Awards Following a Change in Control 18 SECTION 17. EFFECTIVE DATE 19
ii
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN SECTION 1. PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT 1.1 PURPOSE The purposes of this 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to promote the interests of Weyerhaeuser Company (the "Company") and its shareholders by attracting, retaining and motivating employees, officers and directors key to the growth and success of the Company by providing them the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company and to link their interests and efforts to the long-term interests of the Company's shareholders. 1.2 REPLACEMENT PLAN This Plan will replace the Company's 1998 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and 1992 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (collectively, the "Prior Plans"). No further grants may be made under the Prior Plans on or after the date the Plan is approved by shareholders of the Company. Shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the 1998 Plan in excess of the number of shares as to which awards have been made as April 12, 2003, will no longer be available for issuance on or after the date of shareholder approval of the Plan. SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS As used in the Plan, the following definitions apply to the terms indicated below: 2.1 "AWARD" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, dividend equivalent, cash-based award or other incentive payable in cash or in shares of Common Stock as may be designated by the Committee from time to time. 2.2 "BENEFICIAL OWNER" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act. 2.3 "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company. 2.4 "CHANGE IN CONTROL" or "CIC" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions shall have been satisfied: (a) Any Person, but excluding the Company and any subsidiary of the Company and any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (collectively, "Excluded Persons"), directly or indirectly, becomes the Beneficial Owner of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities with respect to 1
the election of directors of the Company and such ownership continues for at least a period of 30 days (with the end of such period being deemed the effective date of the CIC); or (b) During any 24-consecutive month period, the individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason other than death to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided, however, that except as set forth in the following sentence, an individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to the beginning of the 24-month period shall be deemed to have satisfied such 24-month requirement (and be an Incumbent Director) if such director was elected by, or on the recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors who then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually (because they were directors at the beginning of such period) or by prior operation of the provisions of this Section 2.4(b). Notwithstanding the proviso set forth in the preceding sentence, if any such individual initially assumes office as a result of or in connection with either an actual or threatened solicitation with respect to the election of directors (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-12(c) of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board, then such individual shall not be considered an Incumbent Director. For purposes of this Section 2.4(b), if at any time individuals who initially assumed office as a result of or in connection with an arrangement or understanding between the Company and any Person (an "Entity Designee") constitute at least one-half of the Board, none of such Entity Designees shall be considered Incumbent Directors from that time forward; or (c) There is consummated: (i) a plan of complete liquidation of the Company; or (ii) a sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Company's assets in one or a series of related transactions; or (iii) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company or the acquisition of outstanding Common Stock and as a result of or in connection with such transaction (A) 35% or more of the outstanding Common Stock or the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto or the outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving entity are owned, directly or indirectly, by any other corporation or Person other than (x) an Excluded Person or (y) a Person who is, or if such Person beneficially owned 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock would be, eligible to report such Person's beneficial ownership on Schedule 13G pursuant to the rules under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act or (z) a Person that has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which such Person has agreed not to acquire additional voting securities of the Company (other than pursuant to the terms of such agreement), solicit proxies with respect to the Company's voting securities or otherwise participate 2
in any contest relating to the election of directors of the Company, or take other actions that could result in a Change in Control of the Company; provided that this exclusion shall apply only so long as such agreement shall remain in effect, or (B) the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto do not immediately after such transaction continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation, or reorganization. 2.5 "CHANGE IN CONTROL PRICE" means, with respect to a share of Common Stock, the higher of (i) the highest reported sales price, regular way, of such share of Common Stock in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or other national exchange on which such shares are listed during the 60-day period prior to and including the date of the Change in Control or (ii) if the Change in Control is the result of a tender or exchange offer or a merger, reorganization or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, the highest price per such share of Common Stock paid in such transaction; provided, however, that in the case of Incentive Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights relating to Incentive Stock Options, the Change in Control Price shall be the Fair Market Value of such share of Common Stock on the date such Incentive Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is exercised or deemed exercised pursuant to Section 16.10(b). To the extent the consideration paid in any such transaction described above consists all or in part of securities or other non-cash consideration, the value of such securities or other non-cash consideration shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Board. 2.6 "CODE" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 2.7 "COMMITTEE" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1. 2.8 "COMMON STOCK" means the common stock, par value $1.25 per share, of the Company. 2.9 "COMPANY" means Weyerhaeuser Company, a Washington corporation. 2.10 "COVERED EMPLOYEE" means a "covered employee" as that term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor provision. 2.11 "DISABILITY" means "Disability" as defined by the Committee or the Company's vice president of human resources for purposes of the Plan or an Award, or in the instrument evidencing the Award, or in a written employment or services agreement. 2.12 "EFFECTIVE DATE" has the meaning set forth in Section 17. 3
2.13 "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. 2.14 "FAIR MARKET VALUE" means the average of the high and low per share trading prices (or the average of the opening and closing prices, or the closing price, if so determined by the Committee) for the Common Stock as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system for New York Stock Exchange issues during regular session trading or such other source the Committee deems reliable for a single trading day or an average of trading days not to exceed 30 days from the Grant Date or other date on which the Fair Market Value is determined, at the Committee's discretion. 2.15 "GRANT DATE" means the date on which the Committee completes the corporate action authorizing the grant of an Award or such later date specified by the Committee, provided that conditions to the exercisability or vesting of Awards shall not defer the Grant Date. 2.16 "INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION" means an Option granted with the intention that it qualify as an "incentive stock option" as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision. 2.17 "LAYOFF" means "Layoff" as defined by the Committee or the Company's vice president of human resources for purposes of the Plan or an Award or in the instrument evidencing the Award or in a written employment or services agreement. 2.18 "NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION" means an Option other than an Incentive Stock Option. 2.19 "NON-RECURRING ITEMS" means non-recurring items deemed not reflective of the Company's core operating performance, including, but not limited to, exogenous events, acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting principles or "extraordinary items" determined under generally accepted accounting principles. 2.20 "OPTION" means a right to purchase Common Stock granted under Section 7. 2.21 "PARTICIPANT" means any eligible person as set forth in Section 5 to whom an Award is granted. 2.22 "PERFORMANCE CRITERIA" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1. 2.23 "PERFORMANCE SHARE" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1. 2.24 "PERFORMANCE UNIT" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.2. 2.25 "PERSON" means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or political subdivision thereof, and as used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d). 4
2.26 "PLAN" means the Weyerhaeuser Company 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. 2.27 "PRIOR PLANS" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. 2.28 "RELATED COMPANY" means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company. 2.29 "RESTRICTED STOCK" means an Award of shares of Common Stock granted under Section 9, the rights of ownership of which may be subject to restrictions prescribed by the Committee. 2.30 "RETIREMENT" means "Retirement" as defined by the Committee or the Company's vice president of human resources for purposes of the Plan or an Award or in the instrument evidencing the Award or in a written employment or services agreement. 2.31 "SECURITIES ACT" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. 2.32 "STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1. 2.33 "STOCK UNIT" means an Award granted under Section 9 denominated in units of Common Stock. 2.34 "SUBSTITUTE AWARDS" means Awards granted or shares of Common Stock issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines. 2.35 "TERMINATION OF SERVICE," unless otherwise defined by the Committee or the Company's vice president of human resources or in the instrument evidencing the Award or in a written employment or services agreement, means a termination of employment or service relationship with the Company or a Related Company for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, including by reason of death, Disability, Retirement, or Layoff. Any question as to whether and when there has been a Termination of Service for the purposes of an Award and the cause of such Termination of Service shall be determined by the Company's vice president of human resources or by the Committee with respect to officers subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Act, and such determination shall be final. Transfer of a Participant's employment or service relationship between wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, or between the Company and any wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, shall not be considered a Termination of Service for purposes of an Award. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a Termination of Service shall be deemed to occur if the Participant's employment or service relationship is with an entity that has ceased to be a Related Company. 5
SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION 3.1 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Compensation Committee may delegate responsibility for administering the Plan with respect to designated classes of eligible persons to different committees consisting of one or more members of the Board, subject to such limitations as the Board or the Compensation Committee deems appropriate, except with respect to benefits to non-employee directors and to officers subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or officers who are or may be Covered Employees. Members of any committee shall serve for such term as the Board may determine, subject to removal by the Board at any time. To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Board or the Compensation Committee may authorize one or more officers of the Company to grant Awards to designated classes of eligible persons, within limits specifically prescribed by the Board or the Committee; provided, however, that no such officer shall have or obtain authority to grant Awards to himself or herself or to any person subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. All references in the Plan to the "Committee" shall be, as applicable, to the Compensation Committee, or any other committee or any officer to whom the Board or the Compensation Committee has delegated authority to administer the Plan. 3.2 ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION BY COMMITTEE Except for the terms and conditions explicitly set forth in the Plan, the Committee shall have full power and exclusive authority, subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to (a) select the eligible persons as set forth in Section 5 to whom Awards may from time to time be granted under the Plan; (b) determine the type or types of Award to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (c) determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Award granted under the Plan; (d) determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan; (e) approve the forms of agreements for use under the Plan; (f) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash, shares of Common Stock or other property or canceled or suspended; (g) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, shares of Common Stock, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant; (h) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under the Plan; (i) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (j) delegate ministerial duties to such of the Company's officers as it so determines; and (k) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for administration of the Plan. Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, any Participant, any shareholder and any eligible person. A majority of the members of the Committee may determine its actions and fix the time and place of its meetings. 6
SECTION 4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 4.1 AUTHORIZED NUMBER OF SHARES (a) Subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 4.1, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be 17,000,000. (b) In the event a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines ("Acquisition Party") has shares available for awards or grants under a pre-existing plan not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, to the extent determined by the Committee or the Board, a number of shares of Common Stock determined by applying the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the Acquisition Party to the number of shares available for grant under the terms of such pre-existing plan shall be available for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan; provided, that such Awards shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination; and provided, further, that such Awards shall be made only to individuals who were not employees or non-employee directors of the Company or a Related Company prior to such acquisition or combination. (c) Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be increased by any shares subject to outstanding awards under the Company's Prior Plans on the date of shareholder approval of the Plan that cease to be subject to such awards (other than by reason of exercise or settlement of the awards to the extent they are exercised for or settled in shares of Common Stock), up to an aggregate maximum of 1,939,181 shares, subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 4.1, which shares of Common Stock shall cease, as of such date, to be available for grant and issuance under the Prior Plans, but shall be available for issuance under the Plan. (d) In the event, at any time or from time to time, a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend or other change in the Company's corporate or capital structure results in (i) the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or any securities exchanged therefore or received in their place, being exchanged for a different number or kind of securities of the Company or of any other company or (ii) new, different or additional securities of the Company or of any other company being received by the holders of shares of Common Stock, then the Committee shall make proportional adjustments in (A) the maximum number and kind of securities available for issuance under the Plan; (B) the maximum number and kind of securities issuable as Incentive Stock Options as set forth in Section 4.2; (C) the maximum number and kind of securities that may be issued to an individual in any one calendar year as set forth in Section 4.3; (D) the maximum number and kind of securities that may be made subject to the different types of Awards available under the Plan; and (E) the number and kind of securities that are subject to any outstanding Award and the per share price of such securities, without any change in the aggregate price to be paid therefor. 7
(e) The determination by the Committee as to the terms of any of the foregoing adjustments shall be conclusive and binding. (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash or property, or for labor or services rendered, either upon direct sale or upon the exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefore, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, outstanding Awards. 4.2 SHARE USAGE (a) Shares of Common Stock covered by an Award shall not be counted as used unless and until they are actually issued and delivered to a Participant. If any Award based on shares is settled for cash, or lapses, expires, terminates or is canceled prior to the issuance of shares thereunder, the shares subject to such Awards shall again be available for issuance under the Plan. In the event that any Option or other Award granted hereunder is exercised through the tendering of shares (either actually or by attestation) or in the event that withholding tax liabilities arising from such Award are satisfied by the tendering of shares or by the withholding of shares by the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock issued net of the shares of Common Stock tendered or withheld shall be counted for purposes of determining the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan. In addition, Substitute Awards shall not reduce the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan. The number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units. All shares issued under the Plan shall be authorized and unissued shares. (b) The Committee shall have the authority to grant Awards as an alternative to or as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company. (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum number of shares that may be issued upon the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall be 18,939,181, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.1(d); and provided, further, that for purposes of Section 4.3, any such shares shall be counted in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. 4.3 LIMITATIONS (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.1(d), no Participant shall be eligible to receive in any one calendar year (i) Options or Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan relating to more than 500,000 shares of Common Stock or (ii) Restricted Stock, Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units under the Plan aggregating more than 200,000 shares of Common Stock. 8
(b) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.1(d), the aggregate number of shares that may be issued pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan (other than Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights) shall not exceed 20% of the authorized number of shares pursuant to Section 4.1(a). (c) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.1(d), the aggregate number of shares that may be issued pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan (other than Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights) that (i) are not (A) subject to restrictions based on the satisfaction of specified performance goals or (B) granted in lieu of the payment of performance-based cash incentive awards; or (ii) contain no restrictions or contain restrictions based solely on continuous employment or services for less than three years (except where Termination of Service occurs by reason of death, Retirement, Disability or Layoff) shall not exceed 5% of the authorized number of shares pursuant to Section 4.1(a). SECTION 5. ELIGIBILITY An Award may be granted to any employee, officer or director of the Company or a Related Company whom the Committee from time to time selects. The above are "eligible persons." SECTION 6. AWARDS 6.1 FORM AND GRANT OF AWARDS The Committee shall have the authority, in its sole discretion, to determine the type or types of Awards to be granted under the Plan. Such Awards may be granted either alone, in addition to or in tandem with any other type of Award. 6.2 EVIDENCE OF AWARDS Awards granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written instrument that shall contain such terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions as the Committee shall deem advisable and that are not inconsistent with the Plan. 6.3 DEFERRALS The Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of any Award. If any such deferral election is permitted or required, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals, which may include the grant of additional Awards or provisions for the payment or crediting of interest or dividend equivalents, including converting such credits to deferred stock unit equivalents. 9
SECTION 7. OPTIONS 7.1 GRANT OF OPTIONS The Committee may grant Options designated as Incentive Stock Options or Non-qualified Stock Options. 7.2 OPTION EXERCISE PRICE The exercise price for shares purchased under an Option shall be as determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock for the Grant Date, except in the case of Substitute Awards. In no event shall the Committee, without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders, cancel any outstanding Option for the purpose of reissuing the Option to the Participant at a lower exercise price or reduce the exercise price of an outstanding Option. 7.3 TERMS OF OPTIONS Subject to earlier termination in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the instrument evidencing the Option, the maximum term of an Option shall be as established for that Option by the Committee or, if not so established, shall be 10 years from the Grant Date. 7.4 EXERCISE OF OPTIONS (a) The Committee shall establish and set forth in each instrument that evidences an Option the time at which, or the installments in which, the Option shall vest and become exercisable, any of which provisions may be waived or modified by the Committee at any time. (b) To the extent an Option has vested and become exercisable, the Option may be exercised in whole or from time to time in part by delivery as directed by the Company to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company of a written stock option exercise agreement or notice, in a form and in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, setting forth the number of shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, the restrictions imposed on the shares purchased under such exercise agreement, if any, and such representations and agreements as may be required by the Committee, accompanied by payment in full as described in Section 7.5. An Option may be exercised only for whole shares and may not be exercised for less than a reasonable number of shares at any one time, as determined by the Committee. 7.5 PAYMENT OF EXERCISE PRICE The exercise price for shares purchased under an Option shall be paid in full as directed by the Company to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company by delivery of consideration equal to the product of the Option exercise price and the number of shares purchased. Such consideration must be paid before the Company will issue the shares 10
being purchased and must be in a form or a combination of forms acceptable to the Committee for that purchase, which forms may include: (a) check; (b) wire transfer; (c) tendering by attestation shares of Common Stock already owned by the Participant for at least six months (or any shorter period sufficient to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings for financial reporting purposes) that on the day prior to the exercise date have a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate exercise price of the shares being purchased under the Option; (d) to the extent permitted by applicable law, delivery of a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company to deliver promptly to the Company the aggregate amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the Option exercise price and any tax withholding obligations that may arise in connection with the exercise, all in accordance with the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board; or (e) such other consideration as the Committee may permit in its sole discretion, including, where permitted by law and the Committee, other Awards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company becomes subject to new accounting rules applicable to equity-based compensation, and is required to or elects to expense the cost of Options pursuant to FAS 123 (or a successor or other standard), the Committee shall have the sole discretion to substitute, without receiving Participant permission, SARs paid only in stock for outstanding Options; provided, the terms of the substituted stock SARs are the same as the terms for the Options, the number of shares underlying the number of stock SARs equals the number of shares underlying the Options and the difference between the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares and the Grant Price of the SARs is equivalent to the difference between the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares and the Option Price of the Options. 7.6 POST-TERMINATION EXERCISE The Committee shall establish and set forth in each instrument that evidences an Option whether the Option shall continue to be exercisable, and the terms and conditions of such exercise, after a Termination of Service, any of which provisions may be waived or modified by the Committee at any time. 7.7 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS The terms of any Incentive Stock Options shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. Individuals who are not employees of the Company or one of its parent or subsidiary corporations (as such terms are defined for purposes of Section 422 of the Code) may not be granted Incentive Stock Options. To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year exceeds $100,000 or, if different, the maximum limitation in effect at the time of grant under the Code (the Fair Market Value being determined as of the Grant Date for the Option), such portion in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as Nonqualified Stock Options. 11
SECTION 8. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 8.1 GRANT OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS The Committee may grant stock appreciation rights ("Stock Appreciation Rights" or "SARs") to Participants at any time. A SAR may be granted in tandem with an Option or alone ("freestanding"). The grant price of a tandem SAR shall be equal to the exercise price of the related Option, and the grant price of a freestanding SAR shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock for the Grant. A SAR may be exercised upon such terms and conditions and for the term as the Committee determines in its sole discretion; provided, however, that, subject to earlier termination in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the instrument evidencing the SAR, the term of a freestanding SAR shall be as established for that SAR by the Committee or, if not so established, shall be 10 years, and in the case of a tandem SAR, (a) the term shall not exceed the term of the related Option and (b) the tandem SAR may be exercised for all or part of the shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option, except that the tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. 8.2 PAYMENT OF SAR AMOUNT Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying: (a) the difference between the market price at which the shares of Common Stock are trading on the New York Stock Exchange as of the time of exercise over the grant price by (b) the number of shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon exercise of a SAR may be in cash, in shares of equivalent value, in some combination thereof or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. SECTION 9. RESTRICTED STOCK AND STOCK UNITS 9.1 GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK AND STOCK UNITS The Committee may grant Restricted Stock and Stock Units on such terms and conditions and subject to such repurchase or forfeiture restrictions, if any (which may be based on continuous service with the Company or a Related Company or the achievement of any of the Performance Criteria set forth in Section 11.1), as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion, which terms, conditions and restrictions shall be set forth in the instrument evidencing the Award. 12
9.2 ISSUANCE OF SHARES Upon the satisfaction of any terms, conditions and restrictions prescribed with respect to Restricted Stock or Stock Units, or upon a Participant's release from any terms, conditions and restrictions of Restricted Stock or Stock Units, as determined by the Committee, and subject to the provisions of Section 13, (a) the shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Award of Restricted Stock shall become freely transferable by the Participant, and (b) Stock Units shall be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. Any fractional shares subject to such Awards shall be paid to the Participant in cash. 9.3 DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS Participants holding shares of Restricted Stock or Stock Units may, if the Committee so determines, be credited with dividends paid with respect to the underlying shares or dividend equivalents while they are so held in a manner determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends or dividend equivalents that the Committee deems appropriate. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine the form of payment of dividends or dividend equivalents, including cash, shares of Common Stock, Restricted Stock or Stock Units. SECTION 10. PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS 10.1 GRANT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES The Committee may grant Awards of performance shares ("Performance Shares") and designate the Participants to whom Performance Shares are to be awarded and determine the number of Performance Shares, the length of the performance period and the other terms and conditions of each such Award. Each Award of Performance Shares shall, upon the attainment of performance goals and other terms and conditions specified by the Committee, entitle the Participant to a payment in the form established by the Committee. The form of payment may be in cash, shares of Common Stock, Options, Share Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or other awards or any combination of cash, shares of Common Stock, Share Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or other awards. Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of shares of Common Stock issued under an Award of Performance Shares may be adjusted on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the number of shares of Common Stock earned upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any Covered Employee. 10.2 GRANT OF PERFORMANCE UNITS The Committee may grant Awards of performance units ("Performance Units") and designate the Participants to whom Performance Units are to be awarded and determine the number of Performance Units and the terms and conditions of each such Award. Performance Units shall entitle the Participant to a payment in cash upon the attainment of performance goals and other terms and conditions specified by the Committee. Notwithstanding the satisfaction of 13
any performance goals, the amount to be paid under an Award of Performance Units may be adjusted on the basis of such further consideration as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion. However, the Committee may not, in any event, increase the amount earned under Awards of Performance Units upon satisfaction of any performance goal by any Covered Employee, and the maximum amount earned by such Covered Employee in any calendar year may not exceed $5,000,000. The Committee, in its discretion, may substitute actual shares of Common Stock for the cash payment otherwise required to be made to a Participant pursuant to a Performance Unit. SECTION 11. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 11.1 AWARDS SUBJECT TO PERFORMANCE GOALS Awards of Restricted Stock, Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units and other Awards made pursuant to the Plan may be made subject to the attainment of performance goals relating to one or more of the following business criteria within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code: profits (including, but not limited to, profit growth, net operating profit or economic profit); profit-related return ratios; return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity or sales); cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow or cash flow return on capital); earnings (including, but not limited to, earnings growth, net earnings, earnings per share, or earnings before or after taxes); net sales growth; net income (before or after taxes, interest, depreciation and/or amortization); gross or operating margins; productivity ratios; share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return); expense targets; margins; cost reduction; cash value added; operating efficiency; customer satisfaction; and working capital targets ("Performance Criteria"). Performance Criteria may be stated in absolute terms or relative to comparison companies or indices to be achieved during a period of time. 11.2 USE AND CALCULATION OF PERFORMANCE CRITERIA Any Performance Criteria may be used to measure the performance of the Company as a whole or any business unit of the Company. Any Performance Criteria may include or exclude Non-recurring Items. Performance Criteria shall be calculated in accordance with (a) the Company's financial statements or generally accepted accounting principles, or (b) under a methodology established by the Committee prior to the issuance of an Award that is consistently applied and identified in the audited financial statements, including footnotes, or the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Company's annual report. The Committee may not in any event increase the amount of compensation payable to a Covered Employee upon the satisfaction of any Performance Criteria. SECTION 12. OTHER STOCK OR CASH BASED AWARDS In addition to the Awards described in Sections 7 through 10, and subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee may grant other incentives payable in cash or in shares of Common Stock under the Plan as it determines to be in the best interests of the Company and subject to such other terms and conditions as it deems appropriate; provided, however, that the maximum 14
amount that any Participant shall be eligible to receive in any one calendar year shall be $5,000,000. SECTION 13. WITHHOLDING (a) The Company may require the Participant to pay to the Company the amount of (i) any taxes that the Company is required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law to withhold with respect to the grant, vesting or exercise of an Award ("tax withholding obligations") and (ii) any amounts due from the Participant to the Company or to any Related Company ("other obligations"). The Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Common Stock under the Plan until such tax withholding obligations and other obligations are satisfied. (b) The Committee may permit or require a Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her tax withholding obligations and other obligations by (i) paying cash to the Company, (ii) having the Company withhold an amount from any cash amounts otherwise due or to become due from the Company to the Participant, (iii) having the Company withhold a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued to the Participant (or become vested in the case of Restricted Stock) having a Fair Market Value equal to the tax withholding obligations and other obligations (up to the employer's minimum required tax withholding rate if such a limitation is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company for financial reporting purposes), or (iv) surrendering a number of shares of Common Stock the Participant already owns having a value equal to the tax withholding obligations and other obligations (up to the employer's minimum required tax withholding rate to the extent the Participant has owned the surrendered shares for less that six months if such a limitation is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company for financial reporting purposes). SECTION 14. ASSIGNABILITY No Award or interest in an Award may be sold, assigned, pledged (as collateral for a loan or as security for the performance of an obligation or for any other purpose) or transferred by the Participant or made subject to attachment or similar proceedings otherwise than by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution, except that to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its sole discretion, a Participant may designate one or more beneficiaries on a Company-approved form who may receive payment under an Award after the Participant's death. During a Participant's lifetime, an Award may be exercised only by the Participant. SECTION 15. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 15.1 AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN The Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion of the Plan at any time and in such respects as it shall deem advisable; provided, however, that, to the extent required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule, shareholder approval shall be required for any amendment to the Plan. 15
15.2 TERM OF THE PLAN Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate on April 13, 2013. After the Plan is terminated, no future Awards may be granted, but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the Plan's terms and conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than 10 years after April 13, 2004. 15.3 CONSENT OF PARTICIPANT The amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan or a portion thereof or the amendment of an outstanding Award shall not, without the Participant's consent, materially adversely affect any rights under any outstanding Award under the Plan. Any change or adjustment to an outstanding Incentive Stock Option shall not, without the consent of the Participant, be made in a manner so as to constitute a "modification" that would cause such Incentive Stock Option to fail to continue to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any adjustments made pursuant to Section 4.1 shall not be subject to these restrictions. SECTION 16. GENERAL 16.1 NO INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS (a) No individual or Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and the Company has no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under the Plan. (b) Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate a Participant's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause. 16.2 ISSUANCE OF SHARES (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock under the Plan or make any other distribution of benefits under the Plan unless, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, such issuance, delivery or distribution would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the requirements of the Securities Act or the laws of any state or foreign jurisdiction) and the applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity. (b) The Company shall be under no obligation to any Participant to register for offering or resale or to qualify for exemption under the Securities Act, or to register or qualify under the laws of any state or foreign jurisdiction, any shares of Common Stock, security or interest in a security paid or issued under, or created by, the Plan, or to continue in effect any 16
such registrations or qualifications if made. The Company may issue certificates for shares with such legends and subject to such restrictions on transfer and stop-transfer instructions as counsel for the Company deems necessary or desirable for compliance by the Company with federal, state and foreign securities laws. The Company may also require such other action or agreement by the Participants as may from time to time be necessary to comply with applicable securities laws. (c) To the extent the Plan or any instrument evidencing an Award provides for issuance of stock certificates to reflect the issuance of shares of Common Stock, the issuance may be effected on a non-certificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange. 16.3 NO RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER Unless otherwise provided by the Committee or in the instrument evidencing the Award or in a written employment or services agreement, no Option or Award denominated in units shall entitle the Participant to any cash dividend, voting or other right of a shareholder unless and until the date of issuance under the Plan of the shares that are the subject of such Award. 16.4 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may bifurcate the Plan so as to restrict, limit or condition the use of any provision of the Plan to Participants who are officers or directors subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act without so restricting, limiting or conditioning the Plan with respect to other Participants. Additionally, in interpreting and applying the provisions of the Plan, any Option granted as an Incentive Stock Option pursuant to the Plan shall, to the extent permitted by law, be construed as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. 16.5 PARTICIPANTS IN OTHER COUNTRIES The Committee shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of other countries in which the Company or any Related Company may operate to ensure the viability of the benefits from Awards granted to Participants employed in such countries, to comply with applicable foreign laws and to meet the objectives of the Plan. 16.6 NO TRUST OR FUND The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan. Nothing contained herein shall require the Company to segregate any monies or other property, or shares of Common Stock, or to create any trusts, or to make any special deposits for any immediate or deferred amounts payable to any Participant, and no Participant shall have any rights that are greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company. 17
16.7 SUCCESSORS All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all the business and/or assets of the Company. 16.8 SEVERABILITY If any provision of the Plan or any Award is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as to any person, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or, if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the Committee's determination, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Award, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect. 16.9 CHOICE OF LAW The Plan, all Awards granted thereunder and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law. 16.10 TREATMENT OF AWARDS FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL (a) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, unless otherwise provided in the instrument evidencing the Award or in a written employment or other agreement between the Participant and the Company, or specifically prohibited under applicable laws, or by the rules and regulations of any governing governmental agencies or national securities exchanges: (i) Any and all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall become fully vested and immediately exercisable, and shall remain exercisable throughout their entire term; (ii) Any restriction periods and restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock or Stock Unit Awards that are not performance-based shall lapse; (iii) The target pay out opportunities attainable under all outstanding Awards that are performance-based shall be deemed to have been fully earned for the entire performance period(s) and deferral or other restriction shall lapse and such Awards shall be immediately settled or distributed; 18
(iv) The restrictions and deferral limitations and other conditions applicable to any other Stock Unit Awards or any other awards shall lapse, and such other Stock Unit Awards or such other awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations or conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant. (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, during the 60-day period from and after a Change in Control (the "Exercise Period"), if the Committee shall determine at, or at any time after, the time of grant, a Participant holding an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall have the right, whether or not the Option or Stock Appreciation Right is fully exercisable and in lieu of the payment of the purchase price for the shares of Common Stock being purchased under the Option or Stock Appreciation Right and by giving notices to the Company, to elect (within the Exercise Period) to surrender all or part of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right to the Company and to receive cash, within 30 days of such notice, in an amount equal to the amount by which the Change in Control Price per share on the date of such election shall exceed the purchase price per share of Common Stock under the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (the "spread") multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock granted under the Option or Stock Appreciation Right as to which the right granted under this Section 16.10(b) shall have been exercised. SECTION 17. EFFECTIVE DATE The Plan shall become effective (the "Effective Date") immediately following shareholder approval of the Plan. 19

EXHIBIT 10.2 [MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN LOGO] This document is a legal plan description of the Weyerhaeuser Company Management Incentive Plan. The plan became effective January 1, 1997 and was amended January 1, 2004. PURPOSE AND PLAN OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Weyerhaeuser Company Management Incentive Plan is to align rewards with the company's vision and strategies, and motivate selected employees to achieve top performance in the industry. Participants in the plan are eligible to receive incentive awards based on the performance of the company, their organization, and their own performance. The plan is designed to accomplish the following objectives: - - Motivate participants to achieve company and business objectives. - - Focus participants externally -- on returns to shareholders and on how well the company performs relative to competitors. - - Attract, retain and motivate participants by providing opportunities to earn better-than-competitive total pay for better-than-competitive performance results. - - Reinforce that teamwork is important in a highly integrated company. DEFINITIONS For the purpose of this plan, an "organization" or an "organizational unit" is a business (e.g., Pulp), a sector staff group (e.g., Timberlands/Wood Products staff) or a corporate staff group (e.g., Finance). A "leader" is the executive, senior or business VP that heads the "organization." ELIGIBILITY Employees of Weyerhaeuser Company and employees of subsidiaries or affiliates of Weyerhaeuser may be eligible to participate in the plan. Eligible participants are identified based on salary grade. The appropriate eligibility level is determined following a review of competitive data. A small number of selected jobs that fall below the standard eligibility level are determined to be eligible if the review of competitive data indicates a strong competitive practice for incentive pay. Employees who are eligible for this plan may not participate in any other bonus plan offered by the company. [WEYERHAEUSER LOGO]
TARGET BONUS Each eligible position is assigned a target bonus amount expressed as a percentage of base pay. A standard target bonus for each salary level is determined, based on competitive data. FUNDING AND INDIVIDUAL AWARDS There are two separate incentives that are calculated on an annual basis: a short-term incentive (based on an annual measure of performance), and an intermediate-term incentive (based on a three-year measure of performance). Funding and individual awards are determined annually for each component as described below. The company has no obligation to pay a bonus to any participant, and may at its sole discretion not pay a bonus for performance or other reasons. SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE - - Funding Multiple -- The short-term incentive is funded based on Weyerhaeuser Company's annual EBIT-RONA (earnings before interest and taxes divided by net assets) compared to the performance of selected competitor companies. Attachment A show the guidelines that will be used by the CEO to recommend a funding multiple. Final funding will be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. - - Allocation of Funding -- The total funding amount for the short-term incentive is equal to the sum of the target bonuses for all participants in the plan multiplied by the funding multiple approved by the Compensation Committee. The funding will be divided among the executive group and the major organizations of the company based on an assessment of their respective performance. The sum of the funding amounts for all of the organizations combined, plus the executive group, may not exceed the total funding amount. - - Individual Awards -- Once the funding amount is determined for each organizational unit, the leader of the organizational unit will determine the short-term incentive bonus award, if any, for each participant in the organization, with the requirement that the sum of the individual bonuses may not exceed the funding amount designated for the organization. The CEO will determine the individual amounts for the executive group. Individual awards may be based on the individual's performance, plant or department performance, or other relevant factors determined by the leader. INTERMEDIATE-TERM INCENTIVE - - Funding Multiple -- The intermediate-term incentive is funded based on Weyerhaeuser Company's three-year Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to the TSR of selected industry competitors and the companies in the Standard and Poor's 500 Index. Attachment A shows the guidelines that will be used by the -2-
CEO to recommend a funding multiple. Final funding is determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. - - Total Shareholder Return -- Total shareholder return (TSR) equals [(ending stock price - beginning stock price) + dividends (reinvested)] divided by the beginning stock price. The beginning and ending stock prices will be based on the average closing price during a 60-day trading period at the end of each calendar year. - - Allocation of Funding -- The total funding amount for the intermediate-term incentive is equal to the sum of the target bonuses for all participants in the plan multiplied by the funding multiple approved by the Compensation Committee. The funding will be divided among the executive group and the major organizations of the company based on an assessment of their respective performance. The sum of the funding amounts for all of the organizations combined, plus the executive group, may not exceed the total funding amount. - - Individual Awards -- Once the funding amount is determined for each organizational unit, the leader of the organizational unit will determine the intermediate-term incentive bonus award, if any, for each participant in the organization, with the requirement that the sum of the individual bonuses may not exceed the funding amount designated for the organization. The CEO will determine the individual amounts for the executive group. Individual awards may be based on the individual's performance, plant or department performance, or other relevant factors determined by the leader. INDIVIDUAL BONUS LIMIT The maximum amount an individual may receive in any year (when considering the sum of the short-term and intermediate-term incentives above) is three times the individual's target bonus. Any payments exceeding this maximum require the approval of the Compensation Committee. NEW PARTICIPANTS AND TERMINATIONS Payments (if any) to individuals who are added to the plan during the year will be prorated on a "time-in-eligible-position" basis. Payments (if any) to individuals who leave the company during the plan year due to retirement, death, disability, job elimination or leave of absence, or who transfer to a position that is not eligible, will also be prorated. People who resign or are terminated involuntarily during a plan year for cause or performance reasons will not be eligible for bonus awards for that year. TIMING OF PAYMENTS AND APPROVALS Payments will be made as soon after the end of the calendar year as possible, generally between mid-February and March 15. Some participants may be eligible to defer bonus award payments. The deferral and timing of such payments are determined by the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan. -3-
All payments must be approved by the organization leader and the senior or executive vice president of the relevant organization. Payments for the executive group must be approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. All payments are subject to appropriate withholding taxes and Social Security deductions, and are paid from the Tacoma payroll system. Payouts are managed, processed and tracked by the Corporate Compensation Department. RIGHT TO AMEND OR TERMINATE Weyerhaeuser Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the plan at any time without prior notice. CONTINUATION RIGHTS No participant shall have any right or interest in the plan or in its continuance or in his or her continued participation in the plan. The existence of the plan does not extend to any participant a right to continued employment with Weyerhaeuser Company. PLAN ADMINISTRATION/SPONSORSHIP The administration of the plan is the responsibility of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources. The plan sponsors are the CEO and the members of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors are not participants in the plan. This plan shall constitute a "Participating Plan" under the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan and, accordingly, any payouts under this plan shall be treated as an award under the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan. -4-
Attachment A -- Funding Calibrations SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE Funding for this annual bonus is funded based on company performance relative to company competitors (see next page), measured by one-year EBIT-RONA. Provided that the company achieves 9 percent EBIT-RONA or higher, funding would be as follows: Example: If Weyerhaeuser's EBIT-RONA is 9 percent or higher, and Weyerhaeuser's ranking is No. 3 in the industry, the funding for the short-term component would be 1.07 x target bonus. NOTE: If Weyerhaeuser's EBIT-RONA is between 7 and 9 percent, the funding multiple will be reduced proportionately. At 7 percent or below, funding is zero. In other words, funding will be: - - 100 percent of the calculated amount at returns above 9 percent. - - 75 percent funding at 8.5 percent RONA. - - 50 percent at 8 percent RONA. - - 25 percent at 7.5 percent RONA. - - Zero at less than 7 percent RONA. - - With straight-line interpolation between these points. For example: - - If we achieve the #3 position in relative ranking and 8 percent RONA, bonus funding will be half of the amount shown in the table (in other words, 0.54 percent of target). - - Similarly, if we achieve the #1 position in relative ranking and 7.5 percent RONA, bonus funding will be 25 percent of the amount shown in the table (in other words, 0.38 percent of target). -5-
INTERMEDIATE-TERM This second annual bonus opportunity is funded based on company performance relative to company competitors and to the S&P 500, measured by Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over a three-year period: Example: If Weyerhaeuser's three-year TSR is No. 5 in the industry peer group, and in the 60th percentile compared to the S&P 500, then the funding for this component would be (0.35 x 70%) + (0.75 x 30%) = 0.25 + 0.23 = 0.48x target bonus. NOTE: If Weyerhaeuser's three-year TSR is a negative number, then the above funding levels for the intermediate-term component will be reduced by 50 percent. FINAL FUNDING IS SUBJECT TO THE REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE. COMPETITOR COMPANIES The companies that Weyerhaeuser measures performance against are established by the Compensation Committee from time to time. Currently the competitor companies are: - - Bowater - - Georgia-Pacific (incl. TBR) - - International Paper - - Louisiana Pacific - - Potlatch - - Smurfit-Stone - - Temple-Inland - - Mead Westvaco - - Boise Cascade -6-


