FILE:WY/WY-8K-20051025144349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On October 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company approved the Annual Incentive Plan for Salaried Employees (the "Plan"). The Plan provides for cash incentive awards to salaried employees based on their performance and the performance of the Company and their organization.
A copy of the Annual Incentive Plan for Salaried Employees is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, to which reference is made for a full statement of its terms and provisions.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) The following item is filed as an exhibit to this report:
     10.1 Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Incentive Plan for Salaried Employees
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 20, 2005
Table of Contents
10.1   Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Incentive Plan for Salaried Employees

 
Exhibit 10.1
Annual Incentive Plan
for Salaried Employees
This document contains the terms of the Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Incentive Plan for Salaried Employees (the ""). The Plan is effective January 1, 2006.
Plan
Purpose and Plan objectives
The purpose of the Plan is to align rewards with the Company's vision and strategies, and motivate Participants to achieve top performance in the industry. Participants are eligible to receive incentive awards based on their performance and the performance of the Company and their Organization.
The Plan is designed to accomplish the following objectives:
Definitions
 
Eligibility
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, each Employee is eligible to participate in the Plan except as follows:
The Compensation Committee may designate in its sole discretion any other employee of the Company or any other individual as eligible to participate in the Plan.
Target bonus percentage and amount
The Company assigns each Employee position within the Company a target bonus percentage for each Award Year expressed as a percentage of Base Salary. The target bonus percentage is then fixed for each Participant as of the December 31 nearest the
 
last day of the Award Year, without regard to any position changes during the Award Year.
A Participant's target bonus amount for the Award Year is calculated by multiplying his or her target bonus percentage by his or her Base Salary. Overtime paid during the year to a Participant who is a non-exempt salaried Employee will be added to his or her Base Salary for purposes of calculating his or her target bonus amount.
The target bonus amount for new a Participant during the Award Year will be prorated on a time-in-eligible position basis. The target bonus amount for a Participant who terminates his or her employment during the Award Year will be calculated on a time-in-eligible position basis but only if such termination is for any of the following reasons as classified by the Company : death, Disability, facility closure, health reasons, reduction in force, sale of facility and Retirement. A Participant whose employment terminates during the Award Year for any other reason will be ineligible for a Bonus Award.
Funding, allocation and individual Bonus Awards
No later than 90 days following the beginning of each Award Year, the Compensation Committee will establish an annual funding schedule substantially in the form of Attachment B, which will consist of the RONA performance level that will be required for threshold, target and maximum funding under the Plan and the multiple that will be applied to aggregate target bonus amounts at each of those funding levels (""). The factors considered by the Compensation Committee in setting the required RONA performance levels may include, without limitation, dividend requirements, interest, cost of equity capital, and relative performance compared to appropriate peer groups. For example, the Funding Multiples for an Award Year may be represented in a schedule as follows:
Funding Multiples
Funding Multiples
The total funding amount will be calculated at the end of each Award Year by determining the Funding Multiple for the Award Year multiplied by the aggregate target bonus amounts of all Participants.
Total funding amount
The total funding amount for the Award Year will then be allocated among the Organizations by the Chief Executive Officer of Weyerhaeuser Company and other designated members of the Senior Management Team based on an assessment of respective performance among the Organizations. The sum of the allocated funding amounts for each of the Organizations may not exceed the total funding amount for the Award Year.
Allocation of total funding amount
Any Participant who transferred from one Organization to another Organization during the Award Year will be included in the Organization to which the Participant is assigned as of the December 31 nearest the last day of the Award Year.
Each Leader will recommend a Bonus Award, if any, for each Participant in the Organization. The maximum Bonus Award that may be
Individual Bonus Awards
 
recommended for any Participant with respect to the Award year is three times the Participant's target bonus amount. In addition, the sum of the recommended individual Bonus Awards within the Organization may not exceed the Organization's allocated funding amount. The Participant's recommended Bonus Award may be based on the individual performance, plant or department performance, or other relevant factors determined by the Leader in his or her sole discretion.
The Compensation Committee will approve all Bonus Awards. In approving any Participant's Bonus Award, the Compensation Committee reserves the right to increase or decrease the Participant's recommended Bonus Award for performance or any other reason.
Timing of payments and approvals
Payments of Bonus Awards will be made as soon as administratively reasonable after the last day of each Award Year, but in no event later than the immediately next March 15. Some Participants may be eligible to defer Bonus Award payments. The availability and terms and conditions of any such deferral are determined by the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan.
All payments of Bonus Awards will be made in cash and subject to appropriate tax and other required withholding and reporting. Bonus Award payments will be managed, processed and tracked by the Corporate Compensation Department.
Right to amend or terminate
Weyerhaeuser Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice to any Participant.
Continuation rights
No Participant or his or her legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs will have any right or interest in the Plan or in its continuance, or in the Participant's continued participation in the Plan.
Plan administration
Except to the extent expressly provided herein, administration of the Plan is the responsibility of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Weyerhaeuser Company. To the extent necessary to carry out such administration, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Weyerhaeuser Company has the power and authority to construe and interpret the provisions of the Plan, and to adopt, amend and rescind Plan rules.
Miscellaneous
The Plan will constitute a "Participating Plan" under the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan, and, accordingly, any Bonus Award payments will be treated as an award under the Weyerhaeuser Company
 
Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan. Moreover, Bonus Award payments will be treated as compensation for purposes of other benefits maintained by the Company only to the extent provided under the terms of the governing documents for such other benefits.
Nothing in the Plan will be construed to limit the right of the Company to establish, alter or terminate any other forms of incentives or other compensation or benefits.
The existence of the Plan does not extend to any Participant a right to continued employment with the Company.
Any Bonus Award paid under the Plan is an unfunded obligation of the Company. The Company is not required to segregate any monies from its general funds, to create any trust or to make any special deposits with respect to this obligation. The creation or maintenance of any account with the Company's general funds with respect to the Plan shall not create or constitute a trust or create any vested interest in any Participant or his or her beneficiary or creditors in any assets of the Company. No right or interest conferred on any Participant pursuant to the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, either by voluntary or involuntary act or by operation of law.
Regardless of the location of any Participant or Employee, the Plan will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, other than its conflict of laws principles.
 
Attachment A  Adopting Companies (as of January 1, 2006)
Columbia & Cowlitz Railway Company
DeQueen & Eastern Railroad Company
Golden Triangle Railroad
Gryphon Investments of Nevada, Inc.
Mississippi & Skuna Valley Railroad Company
Norpac Resources LLC
Weyerhaeuser Global Finance Company
Texas, Oklahoma & Eastern Railroad Company
Westwood Shipping Lines, Inc.
Weyerhaeuser Holdings Limited
     Weyerhaeuser Company Limited
317298 Saskatchewan Ltd.
Forest License A49782 Holdings Ltd.
MacMillan Bloedel Pembroke Limited Partnership
Sturgeon Falls Repulping Limited
Sturgeon Falls Limited Partnership
Wapawekka Lumber Ltd.
Weyerhaeuser (Delta) Limited
Weyerhaeuser (Ottawa) Limited
Weyerhaeuser Saskatchewan Limited
Weyerhaeuser Services Limited
Weyerhaeuser Sales Company
WFS II LLC
     Weyerhaeuser Financial Investments, Inc.
     Weyerhaeuser Venture Company
Las Positas Land Co.
WAMCO, Inc.
Weyerhaeuser Raw Materials, Inc.
 
Attachment B  Annual Funding Schedule (Sample)
The following schedule will determine proposed Plan funding for the fiscal year ending on December XX, 200X


