FILE:WY/WY-8K-20060221104118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On February 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company approved the following agreements to be entered into by the company and certain officers of the company:
Copies of the agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7, to which reference is made for a full statement of their terms and provisions.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Stock Option Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Stock Option Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you an Option under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock indicated in your Grant Notice (the "Shares") at the exercise price indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Stock Option Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. The Option is granted to you as a participant in the Plan and is subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Plan. In addition, the Option has the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. The Option will vest and become exercisable over a period of four years. No part of the Option will be exercisable until the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date. On the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date, 25% of the Option will vest and be exercisable, with an additional 25% of the Option vesting and becoming exercisable on each of the second, third and fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. As of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date, 100% of the Option will be vested and exercisable. 2. TERM. The Options will expire at the time specified in your Grant Notice. Following that date, you will no longer be able to exercise the Option. In addition, the Option may terminate earlier than the tenth anniversary if your employment with Weyerhaeuser Company ceases for any reason. Transfer of employment between or among the Company and its subsidiaries is not considered termination of employment. Options that are not vested before their expiration date are forfeited and without value. 3. CHANGE IN OPTION TERM AS A RESULT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If your employment terminates before the Option has expired, the length of time during which you have a right to exercise the Option varies depending on the reason for termination of employment. (a) TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DEATH OF THE PARTICIPANT. During your lifetime, this Option may be exercised only by you. If you die while actively employed, your Option is automatically 100% vested and your beneficiary or personal representative may exercise the Option at any time or from time to time within a maximum of two years after your date of death, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (b) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON RETIREMENT. If you qualify for retirement at the time of termination (after reaching age 65 or after reaching age 62 with ten (10) years or more of Vesting Service as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees), your Option will automatically be 100% vested at your retirement date and you will be able to exercise the Option for the remaining term of the grant, up to a maximum of 10 years. (c) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If you retire before age 62, but not earlier than your 55th birthday and you also have accrued a total of
10 years of Vesting Service (as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Early Retirement"), your Option will continue to vest according to the vesting schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. In addition, if you do not qualify for Retirement or Early Retirement, but retire as a result of a Disability, the onset of which occurred on or after the date you had accrued 10 years of Vesting Service ("Disability Retirement"), your Option will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. "Disability" means " a medical condition in which a person is either entitled to total and permanent disability benefits under the Social Security Act or judged to be totally and permanently disabled by any person or committee entitled to make such determinations pursuant to the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (d) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO POSITION ELIMINATION OR DISABILITY. If your employment is terminated as a result of position elimination or Disability, your Option will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise vested Options within a maximum of three years from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (e) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR REASON OTHER THAN POSITION ELIMINATION, RETIREMENT, EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If your employment is terminated for any reason other than position elimination, Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement, any portion of your Option that is not vested is forfeited and no longer has any value. You will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested as of the date of your termination for a maximum of three calendar months from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (f) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE. The vested portion of the Option will automatically expire at the time the Company first notifies you of your Termination for Cause, unless the Committee determines otherwise. If your employment or service relationship is suspended pending an investigation of whether you will be terminated for Cause, all your rights under the Option likewise will be suspended during the period of investigation. If any facts that would constitute termination for Cause are discovered after your Termination of Service, any Option you then hold may be immediately terminated by the Committee. "Cause" means: (i) willful and continued failure to perform substantially your duties with the Company after the Company delivers to you written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties; (ii) conviction of a felony; or (iii) willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. The Option must be exercised within three months after termination of employment for reasons other than death or Disability and one year after termination of employment due to Disability to qualify for the beneficial tax treatment afforded Incentive Stock Options. 2
IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO BE AWARE OF THE DATE THE OPTION TERMINATES. 4. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not exercise the Option unless the Shares issuable upon exercise are registered under the Securities Act or if the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The exercise of the Option must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the Option, and you may not exercise the Option if the Company determines that such exercise would not be in compliance with such laws and regulations. 5. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION QUALIFICATION. If your Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in your Grant Notice, all or a portion of the Option is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under federal income tax law. However, the Company does not represent or guarantee that the Option qualifies as such. If the Option has been designated as an Incentive Stock Option and the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the grant date) of the shares of Common Stock subject to the portions of the Option and all other Incentive Stock Options you hold that first become exercisable during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, any excess portion will be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option, unless the Internal Revenue Service changes the rules and regulations governing the $100,000 limit for Incentive Stock Options. In addition, a portion of the Option may be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option if certain events cause exercisability of the Option to accelerate. 6. NOTICE OF DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION. To the extent the Option has been designated as an Incentive Stock Option, to obtain certain tax benefits afforded to Incentive Stock Options, you must hold the Shares issued upon the exercise of the Option for two years after the Grant Date and one year after the date of exercise. If shares of stock obtained upon exercise of an Incentive Stock Option are tendered to pay the exercise price for another option less than one year after the exercise date of the Incentive Stock Option, the tender will be considered a disqualifying disposition. You may be subject to the alternative minimum tax at the time of exercise. You should obtain tax advice when exercising the Option and prior to the disposition of the Shares. By accepting an Option designated as an Incentive Stock Option, you agree to promptly notify the Company if you dispose of any of the Shares within one year from the date you exercise all or part of the Option or within two years from the Grant Date. 7. METHOD OF EXERCISE. You may exercise the Option by giving notice to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, which will state your election to exercise the Option and the number of Shares for which you are exercising the Option. The notice must be accompanied by full payment of the exercise price for the number of Shares you are purchasing. You may make this payment in any combination of the following: (a) by cash; (b) by check acceptable to the Company; (c) by tendering (either actually or by attestation) shares of Common Stock you have owned for at least six months (if such holding period is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings); (d) to the extent permitted by law, by instructing a broker to deliver to the Company the total payment required in accordance with procedures established by the Company; or (e) by any other method permitted by the Committee. 3
8. WITHHOLDING TAXES. As a condition to the exercise of any portion of an Option, you must make such arrangements as the Company may require for the satisfaction of any federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax obligations that may arise in connection with such exercise. 9. OPTION NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause. 10. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if you are required to exercise the vested portion of the Option within three months (one year in the case of Retirement, Disability or death) of the Termination of Service or if any portion of the Option is cancelled or expires unexercised. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your Termination of Service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 11. BINDING EFFECT. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 12. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Agreement and accepting the grant of the Option evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the grant of the Option is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when options will be granted, the number of shares subject to each option, the option price, and the time or times when each option will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Option is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Option ceases upon your Termination of Service for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Agreement or otherwise permitted by the Committee; (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Option is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (i) that if the Shares underlying the Option do not increase in value, the Option will have no value. 13. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Option and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 4

EXHIBIT 10.2 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE PLAN AWARD AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Performance Plan Award Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") the target number of Performance Plan Awards ("Awards") indicated in your Grant Notice at the market value indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Grant Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. Awards represent the Company's unfunded and unsecured promise to issue shares of Company Common Stock to you at a future date based upon satisfaction of certain performance criteria, and subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan. You have no rights under the Awards other than the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company. In addition, the Awards have the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. You can earn the Awards based on the Company's performance in achieving cumulative business targets of RONA Spread relative to certain performance peers over a three-year period commencing on 12/26/2005 and ending 12/28/2008 ("Performance Period"). Awards vest at the end of the Performance Period subject to the provisions of Section 3, Termination of Employment. Performance against the targets will be subject to payout calculations as follows: Payment for performance between thresholds will be determined on a pro-rata basis. Awards that have not vested at the end of the Performance Period in accordance with the preceding paragraph are forfeited and no longer have any value. No Shares will be issued or issuable with respect to any portion of the Awards that do not vest at the end of the Performance Period.
2. CONVERSION OF AWARDS AND ISSUANCE OF SHARES. Upon each vesting of Awards, one share of Company Common Stock shall be issued for each Award that vests on such date (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. Thereafter, the Company will subtract from the vested Shares the whole number of Shares necessary to satisfy any required Tax Withholding Obligations as described in Section 9 hereof, and transfer the balance of the vested Shares to you. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued under this Agreement. 3. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. Upon termination of your employment for any reason (including as a result of death or disability), any of your Awards that are not vested are forfeited and no longer have any value. No Shares will be issued or issuable with respect to any portion of the Awards that are forfeited. 4. DIVIDENDS. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, you will not be entitled to any rights of a shareholder with respect to Awards that have not vested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company declares and pays dividends on Common Stock during the time period when unvested Awards are outstanding, you will be credited with additional amounts for each unvested Award equal to the dividend that would have been paid with respect to such unvested Award if it had been an actual share of common Stock, which amount shall remain subject to restrictions (and as determined by the Administrator may be reinvested in unvested Awards ) and shall vest concurrently with the vesting of the unvested Awards upon which such dividend equivalent amounts were paid. 5. NO RIGHTS AS SHAREHOLDER UNTIL VESTING. You shall not have any voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Common Stock with respect to the unvested Awards. Upon vesting of the Awards and issuance of shares of Common Stock, you will obtain full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company. 6. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not sell the Shares acquired upon vesting of the Awards unless such Shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or, if such Shares are not then so registered, such sale would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The sale of such Shares must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the Shares and you may not sell the Shares if the Company determines that such sale would not be in material compliance with such laws and regulations. 7. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not sell, pledge, assign, hypothecate, transfer or dispose of your Awards in any manner prior to the distribution to you of shares of Company common stock in respect of such Awards. Awards shall not be subject to execution, attachment or other process. 8. INDEPENDENT TAX ADVICE. You acknowledge that determining the actual tax consequences of receiving or disposing of the Awards and Shares may be complicated. These tax consequences will depend, in part, on your specific situation and also may depend on the resolution of currently uncertain tax law and other variables not within the control of the Company. You are aware that you should consult a competent and independent tax advisor for a full understanding of the specific tax consequences to you of receiving or disposing of Awards and Shares. Prior to executing this Agreement, you either have consulted with a competent tax advisor independent of the Company to obtain tax advice concerning the receipt, vesting or disposition of the Awards or Shares in light of your specific situation or have had the opportunity to consult with such a tax advisor but chose not to do so.
9. TAXES AND WITHHOLDING. You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Awards, including federal, state, local, FICA, or foreign taxes of any kind required by law, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Awards. The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the Grant or vesting of the Award or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the Awards. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Awards to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. When an event occurs in connection with the Awards (e.g., vesting) that the company determines results in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any social tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY LAW, the Company shall retain without notice from Shares issuable under the Awards or from salary or other amounts payable to you, whole Shares or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation. The Company may refuse to issue any Shares to you until your Tax Withholding Obligation is satisfied. 10. GRANT NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause. 11. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if any portion of the Grant is forfeited. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your termination of service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 12. BINDING EFFECT. This Grant Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 13. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Grant Agreement and accepting the Grant evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the Grant is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of performance plan awards; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when grants will be made, the number of performance plan awards subject to each grant, the grant price, and the time or times when each grant will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Grant is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Grant ceases upon your termination of employment for any reason and any unvested Awards will be forfeited; and (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Grant is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. 14. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering into this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or
providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Award and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form.

EXHIBIT 10.3 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Grant Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you a stock appreciation right ("SAR") under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") based on the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock (the "Shares") indicated in your Grant Notice at the grant price equal to the market value of the related Share that is indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Grant Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. The Grant is made to you as a participant in the Plan and is subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Plan. In addition, the Grant has the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. The Grant will vest and become exercisable over a period of four years. No part of the Grant will be exercisable until the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date. On the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date, 25% of the Grant will vest and be exercisable, with an additional 25% of the Grant vesting and becoming exercisable on each of the second, third and fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. As of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date, 100% of the Grant will be vested and exercisable. 2. TERM. The Grant will expire at the time specified in your Grant Notice. Following that date, you will no longer be able to exercise the SAR. In addition, the Grant may terminate earlier than the tenth anniversary if your employment with Weyerhaeuser Company ceases for any reason. Transfer of employment between or among the Company and its subsidiaries is not considered termination of employment. Grants that are not vested before their expiration date are forfeited and without value. 3. CHANGE IN GRANT TERM AS A RESULT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If your employment terminates before the Grant has expired, the length of time during which you have a right to exercise the Grant varies depending on the reason for termination of employment. (a) TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DEATH OF THE PARTICIPANT. During your lifetime, this Grant may be exercised only by you. If you die while actively employed, your Grant is automatically 100% vested and your beneficiary or personal representative may exercise the Grant at any time or from time to time within a maximum of two years after your date of death, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (b) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON RETIREMENT. If you qualify for Retirement at the time of termination (after reaching age 65 or after reaching age 62 with ten (10) years or more of Vesting Service as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) your Grant will automatically be 100% vested at your retirement date and you will be able to exercise the Grant for the remaining term of the grant, up to a maximum of 10 years. (c) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If you retire before age 62, but not earlier than your 55th birthday and you also have accrued a total of
10 years of Vesting Service (as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Early Retirement"), your Grant will continue to vest according to the vesting schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. In addition, if you do not qualify for Retirement or Early Retirement, but retire as a result of a Disability, the onset of which occurred on or after the date you had accrued 10 years of Vesting Service ("Disability Retirement"), your Grant will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. "Disability" means " a medical condition in which a person is either entitled to total and permanent disability benefits under the Social Security Act or judged to be totally and permanently disabled by any person or committee entitled to make such determinations pursuant to the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (d) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO POSITION ELIMINATION OR DISABILITY. If your employment is terminated as a result of position elimination or Disability, your Grant will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise vested portions of the Grant within a maximum of three years from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. (e) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR REASON OTHER THAN POSITION ELIMINATION, RETIREMENT, EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If your employment is terminated for any reason other than position elimination, Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement, any portion of your Grant that is not vested is forfeited and no longer has any value. You will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested as of the date of your termination for a maximum of three calendar months from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. (f) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE. The vested portion of the Grant will automatically expire at the time the Company first notifies you of your Termination for Cause, unless the Committee determines otherwise. If your employment or service relationship is suspended pending an investigation of whether you will be terminated for Cause, all your rights under the Grant likewise will be suspended during the period of investigation. If any facts that would constitute termination for Cause are discovered after your Termination of Service, any portion of the Grant you then hold may be immediately terminated by the Committee. "Cause" means: (i) willful and continued failure to perform substantially your duties with the Company after the Company delivers to you written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties; (ii) conviction of a felony; or (iii) willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO BE AWARE OF THE DATE THE GRANT TERMINATES. 2
4. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not exercise the SAR included in the Grant unless the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would comply with the requirements of the Securities Act. The exercise of the SAR must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the SAR, and you may not exercise the SAR if the Company determines that such exercise would not be in compliance with such laws and regulations. 5. METHOD OF EXERCISE AND PAYMENT. You may exercise the SAR by giving notice to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, which will state your election to exercise the SAR and the number of Shares with respect to which you are exercising the SAR. Upon exercise of the SAR, you will be entitled to receive a cash payment equal to the market price of the Company's Shares at the time of exercise minus the grant price, multiplied by the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 6. WITHHOLDING TAXES. As a condition to the exercise of any portion of a Grant, you must make such arrangements as the Company may require for the satisfaction of any federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax obligations that may arise in connection with such exercise. 7. GRANT NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause. 8. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if you are required to exercise the vested portion of the Grant within three months (one year in the case of Retirement, Disability or death) of the Termination of Service or if any portion of the Grant is cancelled or expires unexercised. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your Termination of Service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 9. BINDING EFFECT. This Grant Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 10. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Grant Agreement and accepting the Grant evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the Grant is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of SARs, options, or benefits in lieu of options; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when grants will be made, the number of shares subject to each grant, the grant price, and the time or times when each grant will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Grant is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or 3
retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Grant ceases upon your Termination of Service for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Grant Agreement or otherwise permitted by the Committee; (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Grant is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (i) that if the Shares underlying the Grant do not increase in value, the Grant will have no value. 11. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering into this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Option and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 4

EXHIBIT 10.4 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Grant Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you a stock appreciation right ("SAR") in tandem with an Option under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock (the "Shares") indicated in your Grant Notice at the grant price equal to the exercise price of the related Option that is indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Grant Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. The Grant is made to you as a participant in the Plan and is subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Plan. In addition, the Grant has the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. The Grant will vest and become exercisable over a period of four years. No part of the Grant will be exercisable until the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date. On the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date, 25% of the Grant will vest and be exercisable, with an additional 25% of the Grant vesting and becoming exercisable on each of the second, third and fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. As of the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date, 100% of the Grant will be vested and exercisable. 2. TERM. The Grant will expire at the time specified in your Grant Notice. Following that date, you will no longer be able to exercise the SAR or the related Option. In addition, the Grant may terminate earlier than the tenth anniversary if the related Option is terminated or if your employment with Weyerhaeuser Company ceases for any reason. Transfer of employment between or among the Company and its subsidiaries is not considered termination of employment. Grants that are not vested before their expiration date are forfeited and without value. 3. CHANGE IN GRANT TERM AS A RESULT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If your employment terminates before the Grant has expired, the length of time during which you have a right to exercise the Grant varies depending on the reason for termination of employment. (a) TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DEATH OF THE PARTICIPANT. During your lifetime, this Grant may be exercised only by you. If you die while actively employed, your Grant is automatically 100% vested and your beneficiary or personal representative may exercise the Grant at any time or from time to time within a maximum of two years after your date of death, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (b) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON RETIREMENT. If you qualify for Retirement at the time of termination (after reaching age 65 or after reaching age 62 with ten (10) years or more of Vesting Service as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees), your Grant will automatically be 100% vested at your retirement date and you will be able to exercise the Grant for the remaining term of the grant, up to a maximum of 10 years. (c) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If you retire before age 62, but not earlier than your 55th birthday and you also have accrued a total of
10 years of Vesting Service (as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Early Retirement"), your Grant will continue to vest according to the vesting schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. In addition, if you do not qualify for Retirement or Early Retirement, but retire as a result of a Disability, the onset of which occurred on or after the date you had accrued 10 years of Vesting Service ("Disability Retirement"), your Grant will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. "Disability" means " a medical condition in which a person is either entitled to total and permanent disability benefits under the Social Security Act or judged to be totally and permanently disabled by any person or committee entitled to make such determinations pursuant to the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (d) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO POSITION ELIMINATION OR DISABILITY. If your employment is terminated as a result of position elimination or Disability, your Grant will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise vested portions of the Grant within a maximum of three years from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. (e) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR REASON OTHER THAN POSITION ELIMINATION, RETIREMENT, EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If your employment is terminated for any reason other than position elimination, Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement, any portion of your Grant that is not vested is forfeited and no longer has any value. You will be able to exercise any portion of your Grant that has vested as of the date of your termination for a maximum of three calendar months from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the Grant if that is a shorter period of time. (f) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE. The vested portion of the Grant will automatically expire at the time the Company first notifies you of your Termination for Cause, unless the Committee determines otherwise. If your employment or service relationship is suspended pending an investigation of whether you will be terminated for Cause, all your rights under the Grant likewise will be suspended during the period of investigation. If any facts that would constitute termination for Cause are discovered after your Termination of Service, any portion of the Grant you then hold may be immediately terminated by the Committee. "Cause" means: (i) willful and continued failure to perform substantially your duties with the Company after the Company delivers to you written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties; (ii) conviction of a felony; or (iii) willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO BE AWARE OF THE DATE THE GRANT TERMINATES. 2
4. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not exercise the related Option in the Grant unless the Shares issuable upon exercise are registered under the Securities Act or if the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The exercise of the related Option must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the Option, and you may not exercise the Option if the Company determines that such exercise would not be in compliance with such laws and regulations. 5. METHOD OF EXERCISE AND PAYMENT. You may exercise the Grant by exercising either the SAR or the related Option. (a) You may exercise the SAR by giving notice to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, which will state your election to exercise the SAR, the number of Shares with respect to which you are exercising the SAR and that you thereby surrender the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. Upon exercise of the SAR, you will be entitled to receive a cash payment equal to the market price of the Company's Shares at the time of exercise minus the grant price, multiplied by the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. (b) You may exercise the related Option by giving notice to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, which will state your election to exercise the related Option, the number of Shares with respect to which you are exercising the Option and that you thereby surrender the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related SAR. The notice must be accompanied by full payment of the exercise price for the number of Shares you are purchasing. You may make this payment in any combination of the following: (a) by cash; (b) by check acceptable to the Company; (c) by tendering (either actually or by attestation) shares of Common Stock you have owned for at least six months (if such holding period is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings); or (d) by any other method permitted by the Committee. 6. WITHHOLDING TAXES. As a condition to the exercise of any portion of a Grant, you must make such arrangements as the Company may require for the satisfaction of any federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax obligations that may arise in connection with such exercise. 7. GRANT NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause. 8. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if you are required to exercise the vested portion of the Grant within three months (one year in the case of Retirement, Disability or death) of the Termination of Service or if any portion of the Grant is cancelled or expires unexercised. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your Termination of Service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 3
9. BINDING EFFECT. This Grant Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 10. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Grant Agreement and accepting the Grant evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the Grant is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of SARs, options, or benefits in lieu of options; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when grants will be made, the number of shares subject to each grant, the grant price, and the time or times when each grant will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Grant is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Grant ceases upon your Termination of Service for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Grant Agreement or otherwise permitted by the Committee; (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Grant is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (i) that if the Shares underlying the Grant do not increase in value, the Grant will have no value. 11. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Option and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 4

EXHIBIT 10.5 EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (TIER I) Weyerhaeuser Company MARCH 2006
. . . CONTENTS
Article 1. Term of the Agreement 1 Article 2. Definitions 2 Article 3. Participation and Continuing Eligibility under this Agreement 6 Article 4. Severance Benefits 6 Article 5. Form and Timing of Severance Benefits 9 Article 6. Excise Tax Equalization Payment 9 Article 7. The Company's Payment Obligation 12 Article 8. Dispute Resolution 12 Article 9. Outplacement Assistance 12 Article 10. Section 409A 13 Article 11. Successors and Assignments 13 Article 12. Miscellaneous 13
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY ______________ (EXECUTIVE) CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (TIER I) THIS EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (Tier I) is made and entered into by and between Weyerhaeuser Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and _____________ (hereinafter referred to as the "Executive"). WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved the Company entering into change in control agreements with certain key executives of the Company; WHEREAS, the Executive is a key executive of the Company; WHEREAS, should the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company arise, the Board believes it is imperative that the Company and the Board should be able to rely upon the Executive to continue in his position, and that the Company should be able to receive and rely upon the Executive's advice, if requested, as to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without concern that the Executive might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by the possibility of a Change in Control; and WHEREAS, should the possibility of a Change in Control arise, in addition to his regular duties, the Executive may be called upon to assist in the assessment of such possible Change in Control, advise management and the Board as to whether such Change in Control would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate. NOW THEREFORE, to assure the Company that it will have the continued dedication of the Executive and the availability of his advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat, or occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, and to induce the Executive to remain in the employ of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company and the Executive agree as follows: ARTICLE 1. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT This Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and shall continue in effect until December 31, 2006. However, in the event a Change in Control occurs during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement will remain in effect for the longer of: (i) twenty-four (24) full calendar months beyond the month in which such Change in Control occurred; (ii) until all obligations of the Company to the Executive hereunder have been fulfilled, and until all benefits required hereunder have been paid to the Executive. 1
ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized: (a) "AGREEMENT" means this Executive Change in Control Agreement (Tier I). (b) "BASE SALARY" means the salary of record paid to the Executive as annual salary, excluding amounts received under incentive or other bonus plans, whether or not deferred. (c) "BENEFICIAL OWNER" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. (d) "BENEFICIARY" means the persons or entities designated or deemed designated by an Executive pursuant to Section 12.2 hereof. (e) "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (f) "CAUSE" means Executive's: (i) Willful and continued failure to perform substantially Executive's duties with the Company after the Company delivers to Executive written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which Executive has not substantially performed Executive's duties; (ii) Conviction of a felony; or (iii) Willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 2(f), no act or omission by Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done or omitted in bad faith or without reasonable belief that Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act or failure to act based upon: (i) authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board, or (ii) advice of counsel for the Company, shall be conclusively presumed to be done or omitted to be done by Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. For purposes of subsections (i) and (iii) above, Executive shall not be deemed to be terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three quarters (3/4) of the entire membership to the Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to Executive and Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subsection (i) or (iii) above and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. 2
(g) "CHANGE IN CONTROL" or "CIC" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions shall have been satisfied: (i) Any Person, but excluding the Company and any subsidiary of the Company and any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (collectively, "Excluded Persons"), directly or indirectly, becomes the Beneficial Owner of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities with respect to the election of directors of the Company and such ownership continues for at least a period of 30 days (with the end of such period being deemed the effective date of the CIC); or (ii)During any 24-consecutive month period, the individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason other than death to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided, however, that except as set forth in the following sentence, an individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to the beginning of the 24-month period shall be deemed to have satisfied such 24-month requirement (and be an Incumbent Director) if such director was elected by, or on the recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors who then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually (because they were directors at the beginning of such period) or by prior operation of the provisions of this Section 2.4(b). Notwithstanding the proviso set forth in the preceding sentence, if any such individual initially assumes office as a result of or in connection with either an actual or threatened solicitation with respect to the election of directors (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-12(c) of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board, then such individual shall not be considered an Incumbent Director. For purposes of this Section 2.4(b), if at any time individuals who initially assumed office as a result of or in connection with an arrangement or understanding between the Company and any Person (an "Entity Designee") constitute at least one-half of the Board, none of such Entity Designees shall be considered Incumbent Directors from that time forward; or (iii) There is consummated: (a) a plan of complete liquidation of the Company; or (b) a sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Company's assets in one or a series of related transactions; or (c) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company or the acquisition of outstanding Common Stock and as a result of or in connection with such transaction (A) 35% or more of the outstanding Common Stock or the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto or the outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving entity are owned, directly or indirectly, by any other corporation or Person other than (x) an Excluded Person 3
or (y) a Person who is, or if such Person beneficially owned 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock would be, eligible to report such Person's beneficial ownership on Schedule 13G pursuant to the rules under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act or (z) a Person that has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which such Person has agreed not to acquire additional voting securities of the Company (other than pursuant to the terms of such agreement), solicit proxies with respect to the Company's voting securities or otherwise participate in any contest relating to the election of directors of the Company, or take other actions that could result in a Change in Control of the Company; provided that this exclusion shall apply only so long as such agreement shall remain in effect, or (B) the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto do not immediately after such transaction continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation, or reorganization. (h) "CODE" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. (i) "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or any other committee appointed by the Board to perform the functions of the Compensation Committee. (j) "COMPANY" means Weyerhaeuser Company, a Washington corporation (including any and all subsidiaries), or any successor thereto as provided in Article 11 hereof. (k) "DISABILITY" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, or in any successor to such plan. (l) "EFFECTIVE DATE" means the date this Agreement is executed, or such other date as the Board shall designate. (m) "EFFECTIVE DATE OF TERMINATION" means the date on which a Qualifying Termination occurs which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits hereunder. (n) "EXCHANGE ACT" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. (o) "EXECUTIVE" means ________________________________________________. (p) "GOOD REASON" shall mean, without the Executive's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following in conjunction with a "CIC": (i) A material reduction in (or assignment of duties inconsistent with) the Executive's position, title or reporting responsibilities existing prior to the Effective Date; (ii) Within two (2) years following a Change in Control, and without the Executive's consent, the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at a location which is at least fifty (50) miles farther from the Executive's primary residence 4
immediately prior to a Change in Control than is such residence from the Company's headquarters, immediately prior to a Change in Control, except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive's business obligations as of the Effective Date; (iii) A reduction by the Company in the Executive's Base Salary as in effect on the Effective Date or as the same shall be increased from time to time; (iv) A material reduction in the benefit coverage provided to the Executive; provided, however, that reductions in the level of benefits coverage shall not be deemed to be "Good Reason" if the Executive's overall benefits coverage is substantially consistent with the average level of benefits coverage of other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive's position at the acquiring company; (v) A material reduction in the Executive's level of participation, including the Executive's target-level opportunities, in any of the Company's short- and/or long-term incentive compensation plans in which the Executive participates as of the Effective Date (for this purpose a material reduction shall be deemed to have occurred if the aggregate "incentive opportunities" are reduced by ten percent (10%) or more); or a material increase in the relative difficulty of the measures used to determine the payouts under such plans (as reasonably determined by the Executive) provided, however, that reductions in the levels of participation in any such plans shall not be deemed to be "Good Reason" if the Executive's reduced level of participation in each such program remains substantially consistent with the average level of participation of other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive's position at the acquiring company; (vi) The failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to the Company to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Article 10 hereof; or (vii) Any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as permitted under this Agreement. Under this Agreement, Good Reason shall not be deemed to exist unless a "Change in Control" has occurred within the time frame described in Section 4.2 hereof. (q) "NON-COMPETITION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT" is an agreement, in substantially the form attached hereto in Annex A, executed by and between Executive and the Company as a condition to Executive's receipt of the benefits described in Section 4.3. (r) "PERSON" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d). 5
(s) "QUALIFYING TERMINATION" means any of the events described in Section 4.2 hereof, the occurrence of which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits under Section 4.3 hereof. (t) "RETIREMENT" shall mean early or normal retirement under the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (u) "SEVERANCE BENEFITS" means the Severance Benefits associated with a Qualifying Termination, as described in Section 4.3 hereof. ARTICLE 3. PARTICIPATION AND CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT 3.1 PARTICIPATION. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, as well as the remaining terms of this Agreement, Executive shall remain eligible to receive benefits hereunder during the term of the Agreement. 3.2 REMOVAL FROM COVERAGE. In the event Executive's job classification is reduced below the minimum level required for eligibility to continue to be covered by severance protection as determined at the sole discretion of the Committee, the Committee may remove the Executive from coverage under this Agreement. Such removal shall be effective three (3) months after the date the Company notifies the Executive of such removal. Removals occurring within six (6) months prior to a CIC, or within two (2) years after a CIC, shall be null and void for purposes of this Agreement. ARTICLE 4. SEVERANCE BENEFITS 4.1 RIGHT TO SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company Severance Benefits, as described in Section 4.3 hereof, if there has been a CIC of the Company and if, within the six (6) full calendar month period prior to the effective date of a CIC, or within twenty-four (24) calendar months following the effective date of a CIC, the Executive's employment with the Company shall end for any reason specified in Section 4.2 hereof. The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if he is terminated for Cause, or if his employment with the Company ends due to death or Disability, or due to a voluntary termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason. Further, receipt of Severance Benefits shall disqualify the Executive from eligibility to receive severance benefits under any Executive Severance Agreement between the Company and the Executive, as such agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, or, if such agreement is no longer in effect, any successor agreement thereto. 4.2 QUALIFYING TERMINATION. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events within the six (6) full calendar month period prior to the effective date of a CIC, or within twenty-four (24) calendar months following the effective date of a CIC of the Company shall trigger the payment of Severance Benefits to the Executive under this Agreement: (a) An involuntary termination of the Executive's employment by the Company, authorized by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, for reasons other 6
than Cause and other than mandatory retirement, or a voluntary termination by the Executive for Good Reason; or (b) The Company or any successor company breaches any material provision of this Agreement. 4.3 DESCRIPTION OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. In the event that the Executive becomes entitled to receive Severance Benefits (and further contingent upon the proper execution of the Non-Competition and Release Agreement as set forth in Section 4.8 hereof), as provided in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 hereof, and subject to the cap described in Section 6.1 hereof, the Company shall pay to the Executive and provide him with the following: (a) An amount equal to three (3) times the highest rate of the Executive's annualized Base Salary rate in effect at any time up to and including the Effective Date of Termination. (b) An amount equal to three (3) times the Executive's target annual bonus established for the bonus plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs (or, if higher, the target annual bonus established for the bonus plan year in which the CIC occurs). (c) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid Base Salary and accrued vacation pay through the Effective Date of Termination. (d) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid targeted annual bonus, established for the plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the then - existing fiscal year through the Effective Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365). Any payments hereunder are in lieu of any bonuses otherwise payable under the Company's applicable annual incentive plans. (e) A continuation of the welfare benefits of health care, and life insurance coverage for three (3) full years after the Effective Date of Termination. These benefits shall be provided to the Executive at the same premium cost, and at the same coverage level, as in effect as of the Executive's Effective Date of Termination. However, in the event that substantially similar benefits are not practically able to be provided by the acquiring company, the Company will pay the Executive a lump sum equal to $25,000 for each year of benefits coverage protection, or $75,000 in total. Notwithstanding any of the above, such medical benefits shall be secondary to any similar medical benefits provided by the Participant's subsequent employer and Medicare, if applicable. (f) Full vesting of the Executive's benefits under any and all supplemental retirement plans in which the Executive participates. For purposes of determining the amount of an Executive's benefits in such plans, such benefits shall be calculated under 7
the assumption that the Executive's employment continued following the Effective Date of Termination for three (3) full years (i.e., three (3) additional years of age and service credits shall be added); provided, however, that for purposes of determining "final average pay" under such programs, the Executive's actual pay history as of the effective date of termination shall be used. Payout of such amounts shall occur at the time established under such plans. To the extent that the Executive is subject to a reduction of such benefits due to application of early retirement provisions, the three (3) additional years of age shall be incorporated in the early retirement reduction calculation so as to offset such reduction. Also, three (3) additional years of age, but not any additional service, shall be used to determine the Executive's eligibility for early retirement benefits. (g) An amount equal to the value of the stock equivalents representing premiums (including any appreciation and dividend equivalents) that are forfeited under the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan, in connection with the Executive's Qualifying Termination. If no such premiums are forfeited under the Weyerhaeuser Company Comprehensive Incentive Compensation Plan, then this Section 5.3(g) shall be null and void. 4.4 TERMINATION FOR DISABILITY. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated due to Disability, the Executive shall receive his Base Salary through the Effective Date of Termination, at which point in time the Executive's benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Company's disability, retirement, insurance, and other applicable plans and programs then in effect. 4.5 TERMINATION FOR RETIREMENT OR DEATH. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of his Retirement or death, the Executive's benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Company's retirement, survivor's benefits, insurance, and other applicable programs of the Company then in effect. 4.6 TERMINATION FOR CAUSE OR BY THE EXECUTIVE OTHER THAN FOR GOOD REASON OR RETIREMENT. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated either: (i) by the Company for Cause; or (ii) by the Executive (other than for Retirement) and other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the Executive his full Base Salary and accrued vacation through the Effective Date of Termination, at the rate then in effect, plus all other amounts to which the Executive is entitled under any compensation plans of the Company, at the time such payments are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement. 4.7 NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason under this Article 4 shall be communicated by Notice of Termination. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. 8
4.8 DELIVERY OF NON-COMPETITION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT. In the event the Company terminates Executive's employment for any reason other than for Cause, Retirement or Disability, the Company shall, not later than the date it delivers the Notice of Termination to Executive, present Executive with a Non-Competition and Release Agreement for execution by Executive. Such release shall be deemed effective upon the expiration of the required waiting periods under applicable state and/or Federal laws. The minimum value of the Non-Compete and Release Agreement at the time this Agreement was entered into was at least 1.5 times the Executive's Base salary which has been built into the severance formula in Section 4.3 hereof. 4.9 REMOVAL FROM REPRESENTATIVE BOARDS. In the event the terminating Executive occupies any board of directors seats solely as a Company representative, as a condition to receiving the severance set forth in Section 4.3 hereof the Executive shall immediately resign such position upon his termination of employment with the Company, unless specifically requested in writing by the Company otherwise. ARTICLE 5. FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS 5.1 FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Severance Benefits described in Sections 4.3(a), 4.3(b), 4.3(c), 4.3(d), and 4.3(g) hereof shall be paid in cash to the Executive in a single lump sum, subject to the Non-Compete and Release Agreement referred to in Section 4.8, as soon as practicable following the Effective Date of Termination (and successful expiration of the waiting periods set forth in Sections 4.8 hereof), but in no event beyond thirty (30) days from such date. 5.2 WITHHOLDING OF TAXES. The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all taxes as legally shall be required (including, without limitation, any United States Federal taxes, and any other state, city, or local taxes). ARTICLE 6. EXCISE TAX EQUALIZATION PAYMENT 6.1 EXCISE TAX EQUALIZATION PAYMENT. In the event that the Executive becomes entitled to Severance Benefits or any other payment or benefit under this Agreement, or under any other agreement with or plan of the Company following a CIC (in the aggregate, the "Total Payments"), if any of the Total Payments will be subject to the tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed), the Company shall pay to the Executive in cash an additional amount (the "Gross-Up Payment") such that the net amount retained by the Executive after deduction of any Excise Tax upon the Total Payments and any Federal, state and local income tax and Excise Tax upon the Gross-Up Payment provided for by this Section 6.1 (including FICA), shall be equal to the Total Payments. Such payment shall be made by the Company to the Executive as soon as practical following the effective date of termination, but in no event beyond thirty (30) days from such date; provided, however, that the Executive's Severance Benefits shall be grossed up only in the event that application of the gross-up feature would result in the Executive receiving additional after-tax CIC-related amounts of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) when compared with capping such Severance Benefits at the maximum amount that may 9
be paid without incurring Excise Taxes. In the event that a gross-up of the Executive's Severance Benefits under this Agreement would result in less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) additional after-tax CIC-related amounts, the Executive's Severance Benefits shall be capped at the maximum amount that may be paid without incurring Excise Taxes. If the Severance Benefits become subject to the cap described above, the amount due to the Executive under Section 4.3(a), 4.3(b) or 4.3(d) (cash payments) shall be reduced initially; thereafter, the Committee shall determine how the Severance Benefits subject to the cap shall be paid. 6.2 TAX COMPUTATION. In determining the potential impact of the Excise Tax, the Company may rely on any advice it deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, the counsel of its independent auditors. For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amounts of such Excise Tax: (a) Any other payments or benefits received or to be received by the Executive in connection with a CIC of the Company or the Executive's termination of employment (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement, or agreement with the Company, or with any Person whose actions result in a CIC of the Company or any Person affiliated with the Company or such Persons) shall be treated as "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, and all "excess parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax, unless in the opinion of the Company's independent auditors, such other payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, or unless such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(4) of the Code in excess of the base amount within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax; (b) The amount of the Total Payments which shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax shall be equal to the amount of excess parachute payments within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code (after applying clause (a) above); and (c) The value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Company's independent auditors in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive shall be deemed to pay Federal income taxes at the highest marginal rate of Federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made, and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of the Executive's residence on the Effective Date of Termination, net of the maximum reduction in Federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes. 6.3 SUBSEQUENT RECALCULATION. In the event the Internal Revenue Service adjusts the computation of the Company under Section 6.2 hereof so that the Executive did not receive the greatest net benefit, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for the full amount necessary to make the Executive whole, plus a market rate of interest, as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the Executive follows the procedures set forth in this Section 6.3. 10
The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten (10) business days after the later of either: (i) the date the Executive has actual knowledge of such claim, or (ii) ten (10) days after the Internal Revenue Service issues to the Executive either a written report proposing imposition of the Excise Tax or a statutory notice of deficiency with respect thereto, and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall: (a) Give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim; (b) Take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company; (c) Cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and (d) Permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claims. Provided, however, that the Company shall directly bear and pay all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.3, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings, and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim. If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to this Article 6, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim due to an overpayment of any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of this Section 6.3) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to this Article 6, a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid. 11
ARTICLE 7. THE COMPANY'S PAYMENT OBLIGATION 7.1 PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS ABSOLUTE. Except as provided in Section 8 hereof, the Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for hereof shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Except as provided in Section 8 hereof, each and every payment made hereunder by the Company shall be final, and the Company shall not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from Executives or from whomsoever may be entitled thereto, for any reasons whatsoever. The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Agreement, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Agreement. 7.2 CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS TO BENEFITS. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, this Agreement establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he may become entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, the Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder. ARTICLE 8. DISPUTE RESOLUTION Any dispute or controversy arising under this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration, conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in a location selected by the Executive within fifty (50) miles from the location of his job with the Company, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction. All expenses of any arbitration involving Severance Benefits, including the fees and expenses of the counsel for the Executive, shall be borne by the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall be reimbursed by the Executive for all such fees and expenses, including the fees and expenses of the Company, in the event the Executive fails to prevail with respect to any one (1) material issue of dispute in connection with such legal action. ARTICLE 9. OUTPLACEMENT ASSISTANCE Following a Qualifying Termination (as described in Section 4.2 hereof) the Executive shall be reimbursed by the Company for the costs of all outplacement services incurred by the Executive within the two (2) year period after the Effective Date of Termination; provided, however, that the total reimbursement shall be limited to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). 12
ARTICLE 10. SECTION 409A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, to the extent the Executive is treated as a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), any Severance Benefits payable in cash (as described in Section 5.1 hereof) and due to the Executive on or within the six-month period following the Executive's actual termination date will accrue during such six-month period and will become payable in a lump sum payment on the date six (6) months and one (1) day following the date of the Executive's actual termination; provided, however, that such payments will be paid earlier, at the times and on the terms set forth in the applicable provisions of this Agreement, if the Company reasonably determines that the imposition of additional tax under section 409A will not apply to an earlier payment of such payments. In addition, this Agreement will be deemed amended, to the extent necessary to avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition prior to actual payment to the Executive under Section 409A and any temporary or final Treasury regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder and the parties agree to cooperate with each other and to take reasonably necessary steps in this regard. ARTICLE 11. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNMENT 11.1 SUCCESSORS TO THE COMPANY. The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or of any division or subsidiary thereof to expressly assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform them if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effective date of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as he would be entitled to hereunder if he had terminated his employment with the Company voluntarily for Good Reason. Except for the purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Effective Date of Termination. 11.2 ASSIGNMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him hereunder had he continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, to the Executive's Beneficiary. If the Executive has not named a Beneficiary, then such amounts shall be paid to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate. ARTICLE 12. MISCELLANEOUS 12.1 EMPLOYMENT STATUS. Except as may be provided under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will," and, prior to the effective date of a CIC, may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time, subject to applicable law. 13
12.2 BENEFICIARIES. The Executive may designate one or more persons or entities as the primary and contingent Beneficiaries of any Severance Benefits owing to the Executive under this Agreement. Such designation must be in the form of a signed writing acceptable to the Committee. The Executive may make or change such designations at any time. 12.3 GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 12.4 SEVERABILITY. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Agreement, and the Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect. 12.5 MODIFICATION. Except as provided in Article 1 and Section 3.2 hereof, no provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless such modification, waiver, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and by an authorized member of the Committee, or by the respective parties' legal representatives and successors. 12.6 EFFECT OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall completely supercede and replace any and all portions of any contracts, plans, provisions, or practices pertaining to severance entitlements owing to the Executive from the Company other than the Executive Severance Agreement between the Company and the Executive, and is in lieu of any notice requirement, policy or practice. Without limiting the generality of the proceeding sentence, the Executive's potential rights to severance pay, benefits and notice under the Weyerhaeuser Company Severance Pay Plan following a CIC shall be completely replaced and superceded by this Agreement. As such, the Severance Benefits described herein shall serve as the Executive's sole recourse with respect to termination of employment by the Company following a CIC. 12.7 APPLICABLE LAW. To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of the state of Washington shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on this __ day of _______________, 2006. Weyerhaeuser Company Executive By: _______________________________ ______________________________ Its: ______________________________ Attest: ___________________________ 14

EXHIBIT 10.6 EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (TIER I) Weyerhaeuser Company and Weyerhaeuser Company Limited March 2006
CONTENTS
Article 1. Term of the Agreement 1 Article 2. Definitions 1 Article 3. Participation and Continuing Eligibility under this Agreement 5 Article 4. Severance Benefits 5 Article 5. Form and Timing of Severance Benefits 8 Article 6. The Company's Payment Obligation 9 Article 7. Arbitration 9 Article 8. Outplacement Assistance 10 Article 9. Successors and Assignments 10 Article 10. Miscellaneous 10
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY _____________(EXECUTIVE) CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (TIER I) THIS EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT (Tier I) is made and entered into by and among Weyerhaeuser Company, Weyerhaeuser Company Limited (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company", or separately referred to as "Weyerhaeuser" and "WYL") and _______________(hereinafter referred to as the "Executive"). WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved the Company entering into severance agreements with certain key executives of the Company; WHEREAS, the Executive is a key executive of the Company; WHEREAS, should the possibility of a Change in Control of the Company arise, the Board believes it is imperative that the Company and the Board should be able to rely upon the Executive to continue in his position, and that the Company should be able to receive and rely upon the Executive's advice, if requested, as to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without concern that the Executive might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by the possibility of a Change in Control; and WHEREAS, should the possibility of a Change in Control arise, in addition to his regular duties, the Executive may be called upon to assist in the assessment of such possible Change in Control, advise management and the Board as to whether such Change in Control would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate. NOW THEREFORE, to assure the Company that it will have the continued dedication of the Executive and the availability of his advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat, or occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, and to induce the Executive to remain in the employ of the Company, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company, WYL and the Executive agree as follows: ARTICLE 1. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT This Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and shall continue in effect until December 31, 2006. However, in the event a Change in Control occurs during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement will remain in effect for the longer of: (i) twenty-four (24) full calendar months beyond the month in which such Change in Control occurred; (ii) until all obligations of the Company to the Executive hereunder have been fulfilled, and until all benefits required hereunder have been paid to the Executive. ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS 1
Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized: (a) "AGREEMENT" means this Executive Change in Control Agreement (Tier I). (b) "BASE SALARY" means the salary of record paid to the Executive as annual salary, excluding amounts received under incentive or other bonus plans, whether or not deferred. (c) "BENEFICIARY" means the persons or entities designated or deemed designated by a Executive pursuant to Section 10.2 hereof. (d) "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (e) "CAUSE" means Executive's: (i) Willful and continued failure to perform substantially Executive's duties with the Company after the Company delivers to Executive written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which Executive has not substantially performed Executive's duties; (ii) Conviction of an indictable offense; or (iii) Willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 2(e), no act or omission by Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done or omitted in bad faith or without reasonable belief that Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act or failure to act based upon: (i) authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board, or (ii) advice of counsel for the Company, shall be conclusively presumed to be done or omitted to be done by Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. For purposes of subsections (i) and (iii) above, Executive shall not be deemed to be terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three quarters (3/4) of the entire membership to the Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to Executive and Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subsection (i) or (iii) above and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. (f) "CHANGE IN CONTROL" or "CIC" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions shall have been satisfied: (i) Any Person, but excluding the Company and any subsidiary of the Company and any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (collectively, "Excluded Persons"), directly or indirectly, becomes the Beneficial Owner of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities with respect to the election of directors of the Company and such ownership 2
continues for at least a period of 30 days (with the end of such period being deemed the effective date of the CIC); or (ii) During any 24-consecutive month period, the individuals who, at the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason other than death to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided, however, that except as set forth in the following sentence, an individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to the beginning of the 24-month period shall be deemed to have satisfied such 24-month requirement (and be an Incumbent Director) if such director was elected by, or on the recommendation of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors who then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually (because they were directors at the beginning of such period) or by prior operation of the provisions of this Section 2.4(b). Notwithstanding the proviso set forth in the preceding sentence, if any such individual initially assumes office as a result of or in connection with either an actual or threatened solicitation with respect to the election of directors (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-12(c) of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board, then such individual shall not be considered an Incumbent Director. For purposes of this Section 2.4(b), if at any time individuals who initially assumed office as a result of or in connection with an arrangement or understanding between the Company and any Person (an "Entity Designee") constitute at least one-half of the Board, none of such Entity Designees shall be considered Incumbent Directors from that time forward; or (iii) There is consummated: (a) a plan of complete liquidation of the Company; or (b) a sale or disposition of all or substantially all the Company's assets in one or a series of related transactions; or (c) a merger, consolidation, or reorganization of the Company or the acquisition of outstanding Common Stock and as a result of or in connection with such transaction (A) 35% or more of the outstanding Common Stock or the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto or the outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving entity are owned, directly or indirectly, by any other corporation or Person other than (x) an Excluded Person or (y) a Person who is, or if such Person beneficially owned 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock would be, eligible to report such Person's beneficial ownership on Schedule 13G pursuant to the rules under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act or (z) a Person that has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which such Person has agreed not to acquire additional voting securities of the Company (other than pursuant to the terms of such agreement), solicit proxies with respect to the Company's voting securities or otherwise participate in any contest relating to the election of directors of the Company, or take other actions that could result in a Change in Control of the Company; provided that this exclusion shall apply only so long as such agreement shall remain in effect, or (B) the voting securities of the Company outstanding 3
immediately prior thereto do not immediately after such transaction continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation, or reorganization. (g) "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or any other committee appointed by the Board to perform the functions of the Compensation Committee. (h) "COMPANY" means Weyerhaeuser Company, a corporation incorporated under the laws of the state of Washington (including any and all subsidiaries), or any successor thereto as provided in Article 9 hereof. (i) "DISABILITY" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, or in any successor to such plan. (j) "EFFECTIVE DATE" means the date this Agreement is executed, or such other date as the Board shall designate. (k) "EFFECTIVE DATE OF TERMINATION" means the date on which a Qualifying Termination occurs which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits hereunder. (l) "EXECUTIVE" means Craig D. Neeser. (m) "GOOD REASON" shall mean, without the Executive's express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following in conjunction with a "CIC": (i) A material reduction in (or assignment of duties inconsistent with) the Executive's position, title or reporting responsibilities existing prior to the Effective Date; (ii) Within two (2) years following a Change in Control, and without the Executive's consent, the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at a location which is at least fifty (50) miles farther from the Executive's primary residence immediately prior to a Change in Control than is such residence from the Company's headquarters, immediately prior to a Change in Control, except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive's business obligations as of the Effective Date; (iii) A reduction by the Company in the Executive's Base Salary as in effect on the Effective Date or as the same shall be increased from time to time; (iv) A material reduction in the benefit coverage provided to the Executive; provided, however, that reductions in the level of benefits coverage shall not be deemed to be "Good Reason" if the Executive's overall benefits coverage is substantially consistent with the average level of benefits coverage of other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive's position at the acquiring company; 4
(v) A material reduction in the Executive's level of participation, including the Executive's target-level opportunities, in any of the Company's short- and/or long-term incentive compensation plans in which the Executive participates as of the Effective Date (for this purpose a material reduction shall be deemed to have occurred if the aggregate "incentive opportunities" are reduced by ten percent (10%) or more); or a material increase in the relative difficulty of the measures used to determine the payouts under such plans (as reasonably determined by the Executive); provided, however, that reductions in the levels of participation in any such plans shall not be deemed to be "Good Reason" if the Executive's reduced level of participation in each such program remains substantially consistent with the average level of participation of other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive's position at the acquiring company; (vi) The failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to the Company to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Article 9 hereof; or (vii) Any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as permitted under this Agreement. Under this Agreement, Good Reason shall not be deemed to exist unless a "Change in Control" has occurred within the time frame described in Section 4.2 hereof. (n) "INCOME TAX ACT" means the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada), R.S.C. 1985, c.1 (5th Supplement, as amended), and the regulations thereunder. (o) "NON-COMPETITION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT" is an agreement, in substantially the form attached hereto in Annex A, executed by and between Executive and the Company as a condition to Executive's receipt of the benefits described in Sections 4.3. (p) "PERSON" includes any natural person, partnership, corporation, trust, sole proprietorship, joint venture, government authority or association. (q) "QUALIFYING TERMINATION" means any of the events described in Section 4.2 hereof, the occurrence of which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits under Section 4.3 hereof. (r) "RETIREMENT" shall mean early or normal retirement under the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (s) "SEVERANCE BENEFITS" means Severance Benefits (as provided in Section 4.3 hereof), (t) "WYL" means Weyerhaeuser Company Limited, a corporation incorporated under the laws of Canada, or any successor thereto. ARTICLE 3. PARTICIPATION AND CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT 5
3.1 PARTICIPATION. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, as well as the remaining terms of this Agreement, Executive shall remain eligible to receive benefits hereunder during the term of the Agreement. 3.2 REMOVAL FROM COVERAGE. In the event that, at the Executive's option and provided that the Company's consent is obtained, the Executive's job classification is reduced and such reduction causes the Executive's job classification to be below the minimum level required for eligibility to continue to be covered by severance protection as determined at the sole discretion of the Committee, the Committee may remove the Executive from coverage under this Agreement. Such removal shall be effective three (3) months after the date the Company notifies the Executive of such removal. Removals occurring within six (6) months prior to a CIC, or within twenty-four (24) months after a CIC, shall be null and void for purposes of this Agreement. ARTICLE 4. SEVERANCE BENEFITS 4.1 RIGHT TO SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company Severance Benefits, as described in Section 4.3 hereof, if there has been a CIC of the Company and if, within the six (6) full calendar month period prior to the effective date of a CIC, or within twenty-four (24) calendar months following the effective date of a CIC, the Executive's employment with the Company shall end for any reason specified in Section 4.2 hereof. The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if he is terminated for Cause, or if his employment with the Company ends due to death or Disability, or due to a voluntary termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason. 4.2 QUALIFYING TERMINATION. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events within the six (6) full calendar month period prior to the effective date of a CIC, or within twenty-four (24) calendar months following the effective date of a CIC of the Company shall trigger the payment of Severance Benefits to the Executive under this Agreement: (a) A voluntary termination by the Executive for Good Reason or an involuntary termination of the Executive's employment by the Company, authorized by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, for reasons other than Cause and other than mandatory Retirement; or (b) The Company or any successor company breaches any material provision of this Agreement. 4.3 DESCRIPTION OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. In the event that the Executive becomes entitled to receive Severance Benefits (and further contingent upon the proper execution of the Non-Competition and Release Agreement as set forth in Section 4.8 hereof), as provided in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 hereof, the Company shall pay to the Executive and provide him with the following: (a) An amount equal to three (3) times the highest rate of the Executive's annualized Base Salary rate in effect at any time up to and including the Effective Date of Termination. 6
(b) An amount equal to three (3) times the Executive's target annual bonus established for the bonus plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs (or, if higher, the target annual bonus established for the bonus plan year in which the Change in Control occurs). (c) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid Base Salary and accrued vacation pay through the Effective Date of Termination. (d) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid targeted annual bonus, established for the plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the then - existing fiscal year through the Effective Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365). Any payments hereunder are in lieu of any pro-rated bonuses otherwise payable under the Company's applicable annual incentive plan. (e) A continuation of the welfare benefits of health care, and life insurance coverage for three (3) full years after the Effective Date of Termination. These benefits shall be provided to the Executive at the same premium cost, and at the same coverage level, as in effect as of the Executive's Effective Date of Termination. However, in the event that substantially similar benefits are not practically able to be provided by the Successor Company, the Company will pay the Executive a lump sum equal to $25,000 (CDN) for each year of benefits coverage protection, or $75,000 (CDN) in total. Notwithstanding any of the above, such medical benefits shall be secondary to any similar medical benefits provided by the Participant's subsequent employer. (f) Full vesting of the Executive's benefits under any and all supplemental retirement plans in which the Executive participates. For purposes of determining the amount of an Executive's benefits in such plans, such benefits shall be calculated under the assumption that the Executive's employment continued following the Effective Date of Termination for three (3) full years (i.e., three (3) additional years of age and service credits shall be added); provided, however, that for purposes of determining "final average pay" under such programs, the Executive's actual pay history as of the Effective Date of Termination shall be used. Payout of such amounts shall occur at the time established under such plans at the Effective Date of Termination. To the extent that the Executive is subject to a reduction of such benefits due to application of early retirement provisions, the three (3) additional years of age shall be incorporated in the early retirement reduction calculation so as to offset such reduction. Also, three (3) additional years of age, but not any additional service, shall be used to determine the Executive's eligibility for early retirement benefits. 4.4 TERMINATION FOR DISABILITY. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated due to Disability, the Executive shall receive his Base Salary through the Effective Date of Termination, at which point in time the Executive's benefits shall be determined in 7
accordance with the Company's disability, retirement, insurance, and other applicable plans and programs then in effect. 4.5 TERMINATION FOR RETIREMENT OR DEATH. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of his Retirement or death, the Executive's benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Company's retirement, survivor's benefits, insurance, and other applicable programs of the Company then in effect. 4.6 TERMINATION FOR CAUSE OR BY THE EXECUTIVE OTHER THAN FOR GOOD REASON OR RETIREMENT. Following a CIC of the Company, if the Executive's employment is terminated either: (i) by the Company for Cause; or (ii) by the Executive voluntarily (other than for Retirement) and other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the Executive his full Base Salary and accrued vacation through the Effective Date of Termination, at the rate then in effect, plus all other amounts to which the Executive is entitled under any compensation plans of the Company, at the time such payments are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement. 4.7 NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Any termination by the Company for Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason under this Article 4 shall be communicated by Notice of Termination. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. 4.8 DELIVERY OF NON-COMPETITION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT. In the event the Company terminates Executive's employment for any reason other than for Cause, Retirement or Disability, the Company shall, not later than the date it delivers the Notice of Termination to Executive, present Executive with a Non-Competition and Release Agreement for execution by Executive. Such release shall be deemed effective upon the expiration of the required waiting periods under applicable state and/or Federal laws. The minimum value of the Non-Compete and Release Agreement at the time this Agreement was entered into was at least 1.5 times the Executive's Base salary which has been built into the severance formula in Section 4.3 hereof. 4.9 REMOVAL FROM REPRESENTATIVE BOARDS. In the event the terminating Executive occupies any board of directors seats solely as a Company representative, as a condition to receiving the severance set forth in Section 4.3 hereof the Executive shall immediately resign such position upon his termination of employment with the Company, unless specifically requested in writing by the Company otherwise. 8
ARTICLE 5. FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS 5.1 FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Severance Benefits described in Sections 4.3(a), 4.3(b), 4.3(c), and 4.3(d) hereof shall be paid in cash to the Executive in a single lump sum, subject to the Non-Compete and Release Agreement described in Section 4.8, as soon as practicable following the Effective Date of Termination (and successful expiration of the waiting periods set forth in Section 4.8 hereof), but in no event beyond thirty (30) days from such date. 5.2 WITHHOLDING OF TAXES. The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all taxes as legally shall be required pursuant to the Income Tax Act. ARTICLE 6. THE COMPANY'S PAYMENT OBLIGATION 6.1 PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS ABSOLUTE. Except as provided in Section 7 hereof, the Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Except as provided in Section 7 hereof, each and every payment made hereunder by the Company shall be final, and the Company shall not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from Executives or from whomsoever may be entitled thereto, for any reasons whatsoever. The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Agreement, and the obtaining of any such other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Agreement. 6.2 CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS TO BENEFITS. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, this Agreement establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he may become entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, the Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder. ARTICLE 7. DISPUTE RESOLUTION Any dispute or controversy arising under this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration, conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in a location selected by the Executive within fifty (50) miles from the location of his job with the Company, in accordance with the rules of the Canadian Arbitration and Mediation Institute then in effect, subject to the provision of Section 10.7. Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction. All expenses of any arbitration involving Severance Benefits, including the fees and expenses of the counsel for the Executive, shall be borne by the Company; provided, however, that the Company 9
shall be reimbursed by the Executive for all such fees and expenses, including the fees and expenses of the Company, in the event the Executive fails to prevail with respect to any one (1) material issue of dispute in connection with such legal action. ARTICLE 8. OUTPLACEMENT ASSISTANCE Following a Qualifying Termination (as described in Section 4.2 hereof) the Executive shall be reimbursed by the Company for the costs of all outplacement services incurred by the Executive within the two (2) year period after the Effective Date of Termination; provided, however, that the total reimbursement shall be limited to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) (CDN). ARTICLE 9. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNMENT 9.1 SUCCESSORS TO THE COMPANY. The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or of any division or subsidiary thereof to expressly assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform them if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effective date of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as he would be entitled to hereunder if he had terminated his employment with the Company voluntarily for Good Reason. Except for the purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Effective Date of Termination. 9.2 ASSIGNMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him hereunder had he continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, to the Executive's Beneficiary. If the Executive has not named a Beneficiary, then such amounts shall be paid to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate. ARTICLE 10. MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 EMPLOYMENT STATUS. Except as may be provided under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company provided that proper notice of termination has been given, subject to applicable law. 10
10.2 BENEFICIARIES. The Executive may designate one or more persons or entities as the primary and/or contingent Beneficiaries of any Severance Benefits owing to the Executive under this Agreement. Such designation must be in the form of a signed writing acceptable to the Committee. The Executive may make or change such designations at any time. 10.3 GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein shall also include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 10.4 SEVERABILITY. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Agreement, and the Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect. 10.5 MODIFICATION. Except as provided in Article 1 and Section 3.2 hereof, no provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless such modification, waiver, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and by an authorized member of the Committee, or by the respective parties' legal representatives and successors. 10.6 EFFECT OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall completely supercede and replace any and all portions of any contracts, plans, provisions, or practices pertaining to severance entitlements owing to the Executive from the Company for Severance Benefits relating to a CIC, and is in lieu of any notice requirement, policy or practice. As such, the Severance Benefits described herein shall serve as the Executive's sole recourse with respect to Qualifying Termination by the Company. The parties acknowledge that the obligations to pay the Executive under this Agreement shall be made by WYL as the Executive's employer and failing payment by WYL, then by Weyerhaeuser. 10.7 APPLICABLE LAW. This Agreement shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia, which shall be the proper law hereof. The parties agree to attorn to the jurisdiction of the courts of the Province of British Columbia with respect to any dispute or other matter arising hereunder. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on this ___ day of _______________, 2006. Weyerhaeuser Company Executive By: ________________________________ ______________________________ Its: _______________________________ Attest: ____________________________ 11

EXHIBIT 10.7 EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (TIER I) Weyerhaeuser Company MARCH 2006
. . . CONTENTS
Article 1. Term of the Agreement 1 Article 2. Definitions 1 Article 3. Participation and Continuing Eligibility under this Agreement 3 Article 4. Severance Benefits 3 Article 5. Form and Timing of Severance Benefits 5 Article 6. The Company's Payment Obligation 5 Article 7. Dispute Resolution 6 Article 8. Outplacement Assistance 6 Article 9. Successors and Assignments 6 Article 10. Section 409A 7 Article 11. Miscellaneous 7
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY ______________ (EXECUTIVE) SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (TIER I) THIS EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (Tier I) is made and entered into by and between Weyerhaeuser Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") and (hereinafter referred to as the "Executive"). WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved the Company entering into severance agreements with certain key executives of the Company; WHEREAS, the Executive is a key executive of the Company; NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the Company and the Executive agree as follows: ARTICLE 1. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT This Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and shall continue in effect until December 31, 2006. ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized: (a) "AGREEMENT" means this Executive Severance Agreement (Tier I). (b) "BASE SALARY" means the salary of record paid to the Executive as annual salary, excluding amounts received under incentive or other bonus plans, whether or not deferred. (c) "BENEFICIARY" means the persons or entities designated or deemed designated by an Executive pursuant to Section 11.2 hereof. (d) "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (e) "CAUSE" means Executive's: (i) Willful and continued failure to perform substantially Executive's duties with the Company after the Company delivers to Executive written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which Executive has not substantially performed Executive's duties; (ii) Conviction of a felony; or 1
(iii) Willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Section 2(e), no act or omission by Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done or omitted in bad faith or without reasonable belief that Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act or failure to act based upon: (i) authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board, or (ii) advice of counsel for the Company, shall be conclusively presumed to be done or omitted to be done by Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. For purposes of subsections (i) and (iii) above, Executive shall not be deemed to be terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three quarters (3/4) of the entire membership to the Board at a meeting called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to Executive and Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subsection (i) or (iii) above and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. (f) "CIC" of the Company shall have the definition set forth in the CIC Agreement. (g) "CIC AGREEMENT" means the Executive Change in Control Agreement between the Executive and the Company,as such agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, or, if such agreement is no longer in effect, any successor agreement thereto. (h) "CODE" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. (i) "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or any other committee appointed by the Board to perform the functions of the Compensation Committee. (j) "COMPANY" means Weyerhaeuser Company, a Washington corporation (including any and all subsidiaries), or any successor thereto as provided in Article 9. (k) "DISABILITY" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, or in any successor to such plan. (l) "EFFECTIVE DATE" means the date this Agreement is executed, or such other date as the Board shall designate. (m) "EFFECTIVE DATE OF TERMINATION" means the date on which a Qualifying Termination occurs which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits hereunder. (n) "EXECUTIVE" means _______________________________________________. (o) "PERSON" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d). 2
(p) "QUALIFYING TERMINATION" means any of the events described in Section 4.2 hereof, the occurrence of which triggers the payment of Severance Benefits under Section 4.3 hereunder. (q) "RELEASE AGREEMENT" is an agreement, in substantially the form attached hereto in Annex B, executed by and between Executive and the Company as a condition to Executive's receipt of the Severance Benefits described in Section 4.3. (r) "RETIREMENT" shall mean early or normal retirement under the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (s) "SEVERANCE BENEFITS" means Severance Benefits as described in Section 4.3 hereof. ARTICLE 3. PARTICIPATION AND CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT 3.1 PARTICIPATION. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, as well as the remaining terms of this Agreement, Executive shall remain eligible to receive benefits hereunder during the term of the Agreement. 3.2 REMOVAL FROM COVERAGE. In the event Executive's job classification is reduced below the minimum level required for eligibility to continue to be covered by severance protection as determined at the sole discretion of the Committee, the Committee may remove the Executive from coverage under this Agreement. Such removal shall be effective three (3) months after the date the Company notifies the Executive of such removal. ARTICLE 4. SEVERANCE BENEFITS 4.1 RIGHT TO SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company Severance Benefits, as described in Section 4.3 hereof, if the Executive's employment with the Company shall end for any reason specified in Section 4.2 hereof. The Executive shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits if he is terminated for Cause, he meets the requirements of the Company's mandatory retirement policy, or if his employment with the Company ends due to death or Disability, or due to a voluntary termination of employment by the Executive. The Executive is not eligible to receive both severance benefits under the CIC Agreement and Severance Benefits hereunder. Accordingly, if the Executive receives severance benefits under the CIC Agreement, he shall be ineligible to also receive Severance Benefits hereunder. However, if the Executive suffers a Qualifying Termination, and if the Company subsequently undergoes a CIC such that the Executive's Effective Termination Date falls within the window period described in Section 4.2 of the CIC Agreement, the Executive's total Severance Benefit shall equal the amounts described as severance benefits under the CIC Agreement (potentially requiring additional payments to the extent the amounts already paid as Severance Benefits hereunder do not equal the amounts payable as severance benefits under the CIC Agreement). 3
4.2 QUALIFYING TERMINATION. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events at any time other than (i) the six (6) full calendar month period prior to the effective date of a CIC; or (ii) within twenty-four (24) calendar months following the effective date of a CIC, shall trigger the payment of Severance Benefits to the Executive under this Agreement: (a) An involuntary termination of the Executive's employment by the Company, authorized by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, for reasons other than Cause; or (b) The Company or any successor company breaches any material provision of this Agreement. 4.3 DESCRIPTION OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. Subject to the conditions of Section 4.6, in the event that the Executive becomes entitled to receive Severance Benefits, as provided in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 hereof, the Company shall pay to the Executive and provide him with the following: (a) An amount equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the highest rate of the Executive's annualized Base Salary rate in effect at any time up to and including the Effective Date of Termination. (b) An amount equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) the Executive's target annual bonus established for the bonus plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs. (c) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid Base Salary and accrued vacation pay through the Effective Date of Termination. (d) An amount equal to the Executive's unpaid targeted annual bonus, established for the plan year in which the Executive's Effective Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the then - existing fiscal year through the Effective Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365). Any payments hereunder are in lieu of any pro-rated bonuses required under the Company's applicable short- and intermediate-term incentive plan. (e) A lump sum payment of $10,000 (net) in order to assist the Executive in paying for replacement health and welfare coverage. 4.4 TERMINATION FOR CAUSE OR BY THE EXECUTIVE OTHER THAN FOR RETIREMENT. If the Executive's employment is terminated either: (i) by the Company for Cause; or (ii) by the Executive (other than for Retirement), the Company shall pay the Executive his full Base Salary and accrued vacation through the Effective Date of Termination, at the rate then in effect, plus all other amounts to which the Executive is entitled under any compensation plans of the Company, at the time such payments are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement. 4.5 NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Any termination by the Company for Cause under this Article 4 shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of 4
Termination" shall mean a written notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. 4.6 DELIVERY OF RELEASE AGREEMENT. In the event the Company terminates Executive's employment for any reason other than for Cause, Retirement or Disability, the Company shall, not later than the date it delivers the Notice of Termination to Executive, present Executive with a Release Agreement for execution by Executive. Such release shall be deemed effective upon the expiration of the required waiting periods under any applicable state and/or Federal laws. The minimum value of the Release Agreement at the time this Agreement was entered into was at least 1.5 times the Executive's Base Salary which has been built into the severance formula contained in Section 4.3 hereof. 4.7 REMOVAL FROM REPRESENTATIVE BOARDS. In the event the terminating Executive occupies any board of directors seats solely as a Company representative, as a condition to receiving the severance set forth in Section 4.3 hereof, the Executive shall immediately resign such position upon his termination of employment with the Company, unless specifically requested in writing by the Company otherwise. ARTICLE 5. FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS 5.1 FORM AND TIMING OF SEVERANCE BENEFITS. The Severance Benefits described in Sections 4.3(a), 4.3(b), 4.3(c), and 4.3(d) hereof shall be paid in cash to the Executive in a single lump sum, subject to the Release Agreement described in Section 4.6, as soon as practicable following the Effective Date of Termination (and successful expiration of the waiting periods set forth in Section 4.6 hereof), but in no event beyond thirty (30) days from such date. 5.2 WITHHOLDING OF TAXES. The Company shall be entitled to withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement all taxes as legally shall be required (including, without limitation, any United States Federal taxes, and any other state, city, or local taxes). ARTICLE 6. THE COMPANY'S PAYMENT OBLIGATION 6.1 PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS ABSOLUTE. Except as provided in Section 7 hereof, the Company's obligation to make the payments and the arrangements provided for herein shall be absolute and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Except as provided in Section 7 hereof, each and every payment made hereunder by the Company shall be final, and the Company shall not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from Executives or from whomsoever may be entitled thereto, for any reasons whatsoever. The Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable or arrangements made under any provision of this Agreement, and the obtaining of any such 5
other employment shall in no event effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to make the payments and arrangements required to be made under this Agreement. 6.2 CONTRACTUAL RIGHTS TO BENEFITS. Subject to Section 3.2 hereof, this Agreement establishes and vests in the Executive a contractual right to the benefits to which he may become entitled hereunder. However, nothing herein contained shall require or be deemed to require, or prohibit or be deemed to prohibit, the Company to segregate, earmark, or otherwise set aside any funds or other assets, in trust or otherwise, to provide for any payments to be made or required hereunder. ARTICLE 7. DISPUTE RESOLUTION Any dispute or controversy arising under this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration, conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in a location selected by the Executive within fifty (50) miles from the location of his job with the Company, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction. The Company shall not reimburse the Executive for any costs associated with arbitration hereunder. ARTICLE 8. OUTPLACEMENT ASSISTANCE Following a Qualifying Termination (as described in Section 4.2 hereof) the Executive shall be reimbursed by the Company for the costs of all outplacement services obtained by the Executive within the two (2) year period after the effective date of termination; provided, however, that the total reimbursement shall be limited to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). ARTICLE 9. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNMENT 9.1 SUCCESSORS TO THE COMPANY. This Agreement shall be binding on the successors of the Company. 9.2 ASSIGNMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, and legatees. If the Executive dies while any amount would still be payable to him hereunder had he continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, to the Executive's Beneficiary. If the Executive has not named a Beneficiary, then such amounts shall be paid to the Executive's devisee, legatee, or other designee, or if there is no such designee, to the Executive's estate. 6
ARTICLE 10. SECTION 409A. All Severance Benefits payable under this Agreement are intended to comply with the "short term deferral" exception specified in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, or otherwise be excepted from coverage under Section 409A of the Code. Accordingly, this Agreement will be deemed amended to the extent necessary to preserve this Agreement's excepted status under Section 409A and any temporary or final Treasury Regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder, and the parties agree to cooperate with each other and to take reasonably necessary steps in this regard. ARTICLE 11. MISCELLANEOUS 11.1 EMPLOYMENT STATUS. Except as may be provided under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company, the employment of the Executive by the Company is "at will," and may be terminated by either the Executive or the Company at any time, subject to applicable law. 11.2 BENEFICIARIES. The Executive may designate one or more persons or entities as the primary and/or contingent Beneficiaries of any Severance Benefits owing to the Executive under this Agreement. Such designation must be in the form of a signed writing acceptable to the Committee. The Executive may make or change such designations at any time. 11.3 GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 11.4 SEVERABILITY. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Agreement, and the Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. Further, the captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force and effect. 11.5 MODIFICATION. Except as provided in Article 1 and Section 3.2 hereof, no provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived, or discharged unless such modification, waiver, or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Executive and by an authorized member of the Committee, or by the respective parties' legal representatives and successors. 11.6 EFFECT OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement shall completely supercede and replace any and all portions of any contracts, plans, provisions, or practices pertaining to severance entitlements owing to the Executive from the Company other than related to a CIC, and is in lieu of any notice requirement, policy or practice. Without limiting the generality of the proceeding sentence, the Executive's potential rights to severance pay, benefits and notice under the Weyerhaeuser Company Severance Pay Plan shall be completely replaced and superceded by this Agreement. As such, the Severance Benefits described herein shall serve as the Executive's sole recourse with respect to termination of employment by the Company other than related to a CIC. 7
11.7 APPLICABLE LAW. To the extent not preempted by the laws of the United States, the laws of the state of Washington shall be the controlling law in all matters relating to this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on this __ day of _______________, 2006. Weyerhaeuser Company Executive By: ________________________________ ______________________________ Its: _______________________________ Attest: ____________________________ 8


