FILE:WY/WY-8K-20060203080056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 3, 2006, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release stating the following:
Weyerhaeuser Reports Net Earnings of $733 Million for 2005, Or $2.98 per Diluted Share, on Net Sales of $22.6 Billion
(Feb. 3, 2006)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported net earnings of $733 million for 2005, or $2.98 per diluted share, on net sales of $22.6 billion. This compares with net earnings of $1.3 billion, or $5.43 per diluted share, on net sales of $21.9 billion for the full year 2004.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
For the fourth quarter 2005, Weyerhaeuser reported a net loss of $211 million, or 86 cents per diluted share, on net sales of $5.9 billion. Last year, Weyerhaeuser reported fourth quarter net earnings of $199 million, or 82 cents per diluted share, on net sales of $5.7 billion.
The loss for fourth quarter 2005 included the following after-tax items:
Fourth quarter 2004 earnings include the following after-tax items:
During 2005, Weyerhaeuser's ongoing strategic review resulted in the following significant actions:
 
"Despite extremely challenging business conditions, we took significant steps in 2005 to make us more competitive and position us to generate greater returns while returning cash to shareholders," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Our strong cash flow allowed us to pay down debt to our target levels, implement a 25 percent increase in our dividend and initiate a stock buy back program. We also began reorganizing our wood products, containerboard and packaging businesses into integrated supply chains and continued to grow our real estate business. In 2006, we will continue to confront the challenges our businesses face with the goal of creating a stronger company."
SUMMARY OF FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR FOURTH QUARTER
(Contributions to Pre-Tax Earnings)
TIMBERLANDS
Fourth quarter earnings decreased slightly from the third quarter due primarily to salvage costs associated with hurricane Katrina and continued high fuel costs for logging and hauling. Fourth quarter results also include $3 million of pre-tax timberland severance costs due to the announced closure of the Prince Albert pulp and paper facility in Saskatchewan, Canada.
The continued strength of domestic and export log prices should produce first quarter earnings that are similar to fourth quarter 2005.
 
WOOD PRODUCTS
Earnings in the fourth quarter include $91 million of pre-tax charges associated with the closure of a plywood mill at Wright City, Oklahoma, the closure of a lumber mill at Aberdeen, Washington, and the potential closure of a lumber mill at Big River, Saskatchewan. Third quarter earnings included $6 million of pre-tax charges associated with facility closures.
Excluding the charges, earnings decreased $13 million from the third quarter. Demand for structural panels increased following the hurricanes and caused panel prices to surge early in the quarter, but panel prices returned to normal seasonal levels late in the quarter. Prices and volume for softwood lumber declined due to seasonal factors. Shipment volumes for engineered lumber products also declined on average from the third quarter.
Manufacturing costs for panels increased in the fourth quarter largely due to a significant rise in natural gas prices. Manufacturing costs for engineered lumber products increased due to the higher prices for oriented strand board.
The company incurred $16 million in countervailing and anti-dumping duties and related costs on Canadian softwood lumber the company sold into the United States in the fourth quarter, compared with $19 million in the third quarter. Starting in December, the company is paying a combined duty rate of 13.1 percent, down from the 25.9 percent rate that was in effect since December 2004. At this new rate, the segment expects to incur approximately $10 million per quarter in duties and related costs.
Weyerhaeuser expects lower first quarter 2006 earnings compared with fourth quarter 2005 earnings before special charges. During the first quarter, demand for wood products should follow the normal seasonal trends with pricing remaining similar to fourth quarter levels. The company expects manufacturing expenses to increase due to higher energy and raw material costs.
CELLULOSE FIBER AND WHITE PAPERS
In the fourth quarter, Weyerhaeuser recorded $427 million of pre-tax charges related to the announced closures of the Prince Albert pulp and paper operations and a paper machine at Dryden. Manufacturing costs continued to escalate due to higher energy, freight, chemical and raw material costs. Prices for fine paper and pulp remained unchanged. Fine paper volumes increased modestly while pulp experienced a normal seasonal decline in shipments.
Announced first quarter price increases for market pulp and fine paper should result in improved earnings in the first quarter 2006 despite continued cost pressures.
CONTAINERBOARD, PACKAGING AND RECYCLING
Fourth quarter earnings include a pre-tax charge of $130 million related to the closure of several facilities and a pre-tax charge of $38 million related to a settlement of linerboard antitrust lawsuits. Earnings, excluding charges, decreased significantly from the third quarter due to lower box prices coupled with higher energy and transportation costs. Costs for old corrugated containers (OCC) were lower in fourth quarter.
The company expects higher pricing, increased box shipments and lower OCC costs to result in improved first quarter earnings for the segment.
 
REAL ESTATE AND RELATED ASSETS
Fourth quarter earnings increased from third quarter primarily due to the expected strong single-family home closings and higher single-family margins, partially offset by a $33 million pre-tax impairment charge related to unimproved land in Northern California.
The backlog of homes sold, but not closed, at the end of the fourth quarter was comparable to year-ago levels. Weyerhaeuser expects lower first quarter 2006 earnings due to a normal seasonal decline in single-family home closings.
OTHER
The company will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on Feb. 3 to discuss the fourth quarter results.
To access the conference call, listeners calling from within North America should dial 1-888-221-5699 at least 15 minutes before the start of the conference call. Those wishing to access the call from outside North America should dial 1-706-643-3795. Replays of the call will be available for one week following completion of the live call and can be accessed at 1-800-642-1687 (access code  3890458) within North America and at 1-706-645-9291 (access code  3890458) from outside North America.
The call is being web cast and can be accessed through Weyerhaeuser's Internet site at http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com by clicking on the "Q4 2005 Earnings Conference Call" link.
The web cast also is being distributed through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomson/CCBN's individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomson's password-protected event management site, StreetEvents ().
www.fulldisclosure.com
www.streetevents.com
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2005, sales were $22.6 billion. It has offices or operations in 18 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at .
http://www.weyerhaeuser.com
This news release contains statements concerning the company's future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects," "may," "will," "believes," "should," "approximately," anticipates," "estimates," and "plans," and the negative or other variations of those terms or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward-looking statements deal with expectations regarding the company's markets in the first quarter 2006; expected earnings and performance of the company's business segments during the first quarter 2006, demand and pricing for the company's products in the first quarter 2006, higher raw material, energy, chemical, transportation and manufacturing costs in the first quarter 2006, seasonal slowdowns in single-family home closings in the first quarter of 2006, and related matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to:
 
The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti-dumping duties imposed on the company's softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the company's results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this news release.
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited) Third party sales volumes:
 
Total production volumes:
 
 
          
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (unaudited)
(in millions)
 
 
          
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SELECTED INFORMATION (unaudited)
(in millions)
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 3, 2006


