FILE:WY/WY-8K-20060421154806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On April 20, 2006, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release stating the following:
Weyerhaeuser Enters into Final Negotiations To Sell Composite Panels Business
(April 20, 2006)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today announced it has entered into an agreement in principle to sell its composite panels business to two companies and is entering into final negotiations with these companies on the sale.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Weyerhaeuser is negotiating with Flakeboard Company Ltd. for the sale of its six composite mills in the United States. Those locations include Albany, Ore.; Bennettsville, S.C.; Eugene, Ore.; Malvern, Ark.; and Simsboro, La. The mills, which produce medium density fiberboard (MDF) or particleboard, have the capacity to produce a total of 1.1 billion square feet annually.
In Europe, Weyerhaeuser is negotiating with Coillte for the sale of the Medite MDF facility. The mill, located in Clonmel, Ireland, has an annual capacity of 230 million square feet.
Flakeboard is headquartered in Markham, Ontario and currently has manufacturing facilities in Ontario and New Brunswick. Coillte is a commercial forestry company located in Dublin, Ireland.
Weyerhaeuser will continue to operate its composite panel mills during the negotiation process.
The sales are conditioned on the negotiation of a satisfactory sale agreement and regulatory and Board approval.
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2005, sales were $22.6 billion. It has offices or operations in 18 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at http://.
www.weyerhaeuser.com
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 20, 2006


