FILE:WY/WY-8K-20060519183948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On February 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company approved the following agreements to be entered into by the company and certain officers of the company:
Copies of the agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7, to which reference is made for a full statement of their terms and provisions.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 19, 2006

EXHIBIT 10.2 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Stock Option Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Stock Option Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you an Option under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock indicated in your Grant Notice (the "Shares") at the exercise price indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Stock Option Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. The Option is granted to you as a participant in the Plan and is subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Plan. In addition, the Option has the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. The Option will vest and become exercisable in two years. No part of the Option will be exercisable until the two-year anniversary of the Grant Date. On the two-year anniversary of the Grant Date, 100% of the Option will vest and be exercisable. 2. TERM. The Options will expire at the time specified in your Grant Notice. Following that date, you will no longer be able to exercise the Option. In addition, the Option may terminate earlier than the fifth anniversary if your employment with Weyerhaeuser Company ceases for any reason. Transfer of employment between or among the Company and its subsidiaries is not considered termination of employment. Options that are not vested before their expiration date are forfeited and without value. 3. CHANGE IN OPTION TERM AS A RESULT OF TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If your employment terminates before the Option has expired, the length of time during which you have a right to exercise the Option varies depending on the reason for termination of employment. (A) TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DEATH OF THE PARTICIPANT. During your lifetime, this Option may be exercised only by you. If you die while actively employed, your Option is automatically 100% vested and your beneficiary or personal representative may exercise the Option at any time or from time to time within a maximum of two years after your date of death, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (B) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON NORMAL RETIREMENT. If you qualify for retirement at the time of termination (after reaching age 65 or after reaching age 62 with ten (10) years or more of Vesting Service as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees), your Option will automatically be 100% vested at your retirement date and you will be able to exercise the Option for the remaining term of the grant, up to a maximum of five (5) years. (C) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT UPON EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If you retire before age 62, but not earlier than your 55th birthday and you also have accrued a total of 10 years of Vesting Service (as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Early Retirement"), your Option will continue to vest according to the vesting schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. In addition, if you do not qualify for Normal Retirement
or Early Retirement, but retire as a result of a Disability, the onset of which occurred on or after the date you had accrued 10 years of Vesting Service ("Disability Retirement"), your Option will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested within a maximum of five years from your termination date, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. "Disability" means " a medical condition in which a person is either entitled to total and permanent disability benefits under the Social Security Act or judged to be totally and permanently disabled by any person or committee entitled to make such determinations pursuant to the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. (D) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT DUE TO POSITION ELIMINATION OR DISABILITY. If your employment is terminated as a result of position elimination or Disability, your Option will continue to vest according to the schedule described above and you will be able to exercise vested Options within a maximum of three years from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (E) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR REASON OTHER THAN POSITION ELIMINATION, RETIREMENT, EARLY RETIREMENT OR DISABILITY RETIREMENT. If your employment is terminated for any reason other than position elimination, Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement, any portion of your Option that is not vested is forfeited and no longer has any value. You will be able to exercise any portion of your Option that has vested as of the date of your termination for a maximum of three calendar months from the date of termination, or during the remaining term of the grant if that is a shorter period of time. (F) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE. The vested portion of the Option will automatically expire at the time the Company first notifies you of your Termination for Cause, unless the Committee determines otherwise. If your employment or service relationship is suspended pending an investigation of whether you will be terminated for Cause, all your rights under the Option likewise will be suspended during the period of investigation. If any facts that would constitute termination for Cause are discovered after your Termination of Service, any Option you then hold may be immediately terminated by the Committee. "Cause" means: (i) willful and continued failure to perform substantially your duties with the Company after the Company delivers to you written demand for substantial performance specifically identifying the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties; (ii) conviction of a felony; or (iii) willfully engaging in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. The Option must be exercised within three months after termination of employment for reasons other than death or Disability and one year after termination of employment due to Disability to qualify for the beneficial tax treatment afforded Incentive Stock Options. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO BE AWARE OF THE DATE THE OPTION TERMINATES. 4. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not exercise the Option unless the Shares issuable upon exercise are registered under the Securities Act or if the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt 2
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The exercise of the Option must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the Option, and you may not exercise the Option if the Company determines that such exercise would not be in compliance with such laws and regulations. 5. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION QUALIFICATION. If your Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in your Grant Notice, all or a portion of the Option is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under federal income tax law. However, the Company does not represent or guarantee that the Option qualifies as such. If the Option has been designated as an Incentive Stock Option and the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the grant date) of the shares of Common Stock subject to the portions of the Option and all other Incentive Stock Options you hold that first become exercisable during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, any excess portion will be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option, unless the Internal Revenue Service changes the rules and regulations governing the $100,000 limit for Incentive Stock Options. In addition, a portion of the Option may be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option if certain events cause exercisability of the Option to accelerate. 6. NOTICE OF DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION. To the extent the Option has been designated as an Incentive Stock Option, to obtain certain tax benefits afforded to Incentive Stock Options, you must hold the Shares issued upon the exercise of the Option for two years after the Grant Date and one year after the date of exercise. If shares of stock obtained upon exercise of an Incentive Stock Option are tendered to pay the exercise price for another option less than one year after the exercise date of the Incentive Stock Option, the tender will be considered a disqualifying disposition. You may be subject to the alternative minimum tax at the time of exercise. You should obtain tax advice when exercising the Option and prior to the disposition of the Shares. By accepting an Option designated as an Incentive Stock Option, you agree to promptly notify the Company if you dispose of any of the Shares within one year from the date you exercise all or part of the Option or within two years from the Grant Date. 7. METHOD OF EXERCISE. You may exercise the Option by giving notice to the Company or a brokerage firm designated or approved by the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, which will state your election to exercise the Option and the number of Shares for which you are exercising the Option. The notice must be accompanied by full payment of the exercise price for the number of Shares you are purchasing. You may make this payment in any combination of the following: (a) by cash; (b) by check acceptable to the Company; (c) by tendering (either actually or by attestation) shares of Common Stock you have owned for at least six months (if such holding period is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company's earnings); (d) to the extent permitted by law, by instructing a broker to deliver to the Company the total payment required in accordance with procedures established by the Company; or (e) by any other method permitted by the Committee. 8. WITHHOLDING TAXES. As a condition to the exercise of any portion of an Option, you must make such arrangements as the Company may require for the satisfaction of any federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax obligations that may arise in connection with such exercise. 9. OPTION NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed 3
to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause. 10. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if you are required to exercise the vested portion of the Option within three months (one year in the case of Retirement, Disability or death) of the Termination of Service or if any portion of the Option is cancelled or expires unexercised. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your Termination of Service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 11. BINDING EFFECT. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 12. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Agreement and accepting the grant of the Option evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the grant of the Option is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when options will be granted, the number of shares subject to each option, the option price, and the time or times when each option will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Option is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Option is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Option ceases upon your Termination of Service for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan or this Agreement or otherwise permitted by the Committee; (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Option is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (i) that if the Shares underlying the Option do not increase in value, the Option will have no value. 13. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Option and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 4

EXHIBIT 10.3 WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY 2004 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE PLAN AWARD AGREEMENT Pursuant to your Grant Notice (the "Grant Notice") and this Performance Plan Award Agreement, Weyerhaeuser Company has granted you under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") the target number of Performance Plan Awards ("Awards") indicated in your Grant Notice at the market value indicated in your Grant Notice. Capitalized terms not explicitly defined in this Grant Agreement but defined in the Plan have the definitions given to such terms in the Plan. Awards represent the Company's unfunded and unsecured promise to issue shares of Company Common Stock to you at a future date based upon satisfaction of certain performance criteria, and subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan. You have no rights under the Awards other than the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company. In addition, the Awards have the following terms and conditions: 1. VESTING. You can earn the Awards based on the Company's performance in achieving cumulative business targets of RONA Spread relative to certain performance peers over a three-year period commencing on 12/26/2005 and ending 12/28/2008 ("Performance Period"). Awards vest at the end of the Performance Period subject to the provisions of Section 3, Termination of Employment. Performance against the targets will be subject to payout calculations as follows: Payment for performance between thresholds will be determined on a pro-rata basis. Awards that have not vested at the end of the Performance Period in accordance with the preceding paragraph are forfeited and no longer have any value. No Shares will be issued or issuable with respect to any portion of the Awards that do not vest at the end of the Performance Period.
2. CONVERSION OF AWARDS AND ISSUANCE OF SHARES. After the Performance period ends, one share of Company Common Stock shall be issued for each Award that is vested as of such date (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. Thereafter, the Company will subtract from the vested Shares the whole number of Shares necessary to satisfy any required Tax Withholding Obligations as described in Section 9 hereof, and transfer the balance of the vested Shares to you. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued under this Agreement. 3. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If your employment terminates before the expiration of the Performance Period as a result of death or if you qualify for retirement at the time of termination (after reaching age 65 or after reaching age 62 with ten (10) years or more of Vesting Service as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Normal Retirement"), or early retirement (after reaching 55 with 10 years or more of Vesting Service (as defined in the Weyerhaeuser Company Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees) ("Early Retirement"), or if you do not qualify for Normal Retirement or Early Retirement, but retire as a result of a Disability, the onset of which occurred on or after the date you had accrued 10 years of Vesting Service ("Disability Retirement"), you remain eligible to receive Shares following the end of the Performance Period. However, the number of Shares you would otherwise receive will be prorated based on your period of employment with the Company during the Performance Period, based upon the number of complete months of service during the Performance Period. "Disability" means " a medical condition in which a person is either entitled to total and permanent disability benefits under the Social Security Act or judged to be totally and permanently disabled by any person or committee entitled to make such determinations pursuant to the Company's Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees. If your employment is terminated for any reason other than death, Normal Retirement, Early Retirement or Disability Retirement, any of your Awards that are not vested are forfeited and no longer have any value. No Shares will be issued or issuable with respect to any portion of the Awards that are forfeited.
4. DIVIDENDS. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, you will not be entitled to any rights of a shareholder with respect to Awards that have not vested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company declares and pays dividends on Common Stock during the time period when unvested Awards are outstanding, you will be credited with additional amounts for each unvested Award equal to the dividend that would have been paid with respect to such unvested Award if it had been an actual share of common Stock, which amount shall remain subject to restrictions (and as determined by the Administrator may be reinvested in unvested Awards ) and shall vest concurrently with the vesting of the unvested Awards upon which such dividend equivalent amounts were paid. 5. NO RIGHTS AS SHAREHOLDER UNTIL VESTING AND ISSUANCE OF SHARES. You shall not have any voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Common Stock with respect to the unvested Awards. Upon vesting of the Awards and issuance of shares of Common Stock, you will obtain full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company. 6. SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not sell the Shares acquired upon vesting of the Awards unless such Shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or, if such Shares are not then so registered, such sale would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The sale of such Shares must also comply with other applicable laws and regulations governing the Shares and you may not sell the Shares if the Company determines that such sale would not be in material compliance with such laws and regulations. 7. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, you may not sell, pledge, assign, hypothecate, transfer or dispose of your Awards in any manner prior to the distribution to you of shares of Company common stock in respect of such Awards. Awards shall not be subject to execution, attachment or other process. 8. INDEPENDENT TAX ADVICE. You acknowledge that determining the actual tax consequences of receiving or disposing of the Awards and Shares may be complicated. These tax consequences will depend, in part, on your specific situation and also may depend on the resolution of currently uncertain tax law and other variables not within the control of the Company. You are aware that you should consult a competent and independent tax advisor for a full understanding of the specific tax consequences to you of receiving or disposing of Awards and Shares. Prior to executing this Agreement, you either have consulted with a competent tax advisor independent of the Company to obtain tax advice concerning the receipt, vesting or disposition of the Awards or Shares in light of your specific situation or have had the opportunity to consult with such a tax advisor but chose not to do so. 9. TAXES AND WITHHOLDING. You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Awards, including federal, state, local, FICA, or foreign taxes of any kind required by law, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Awards. The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the Grant or vesting of the Award or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the Awards. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Awards to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. When an event occurs in connection with the Awards (e.g., vesting) that the company determines results in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any social tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), TO
THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY LAW, the Company shall retain without notice from Shares issuable under the Awards or from salary or other amounts payable to you, whole Shares or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation. The Company may refuse to issue any Shares to you until your Tax Withholding Obligation is satisfied. 10. GRANT NOT AN EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE CONTRACT. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan will be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer any right for you to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Company to terminate your employment or other relationship at any time, with or without cause. 11. NO RIGHT TO DAMAGES. You will have no right to bring a claim or to receive damages if any portion of the Grant is forfeited. The loss of existing or potential profit in Awards will not constitute an element of damages in the event of your termination of service for any reason even if the termination is in violation of an obligation of the Company or a Related Company to you. 12. BINDING EFFECT. This Grant Agreement will inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and be binding upon you and your heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. 13. LIMITATION ON RIGHTS; NO RIGHT TO FUTURE GRANTS; EXTRAORDINARY ITEM OF COMPENSATION. By entering into this Grant Agreement and accepting the Grant evidenced hereby, you acknowledge: (a) that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be suspended or terminated by the Company at any time; (b) that the Grant is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of performance plan awards; (c) that all determinations with respect to any such future grants, including, but not limited to, the times when grants will be made, the number of performance plan awards subject to each grant, the grant price, and the time or times when each grant will be exercisable, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) that your participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) that the value of the Grant is an extraordinary item of compensation that is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any; (f) that the Grant is not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (g) that the vesting of the Grant ceases upon your termination of employment for any reason and any unvested Awards will be forfeited; and (h) that the future value of the Shares underlying the Grant is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. 14. EMPLOYEE DATA PRIVACY. By entering into this Agreement, you (a) authorize the Company and your employer, if different, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its affiliates any information and data the Company requests in order to facilitate the grant of the Award and the administration of the Plan; (b) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (c) authorize the Company and its agents to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 15. The plan and this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.


