FILE:WY/WY-8K-20061214162003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
In connection with today's filing by Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC, of an amended Schedule 13D disclosure concerning Weyerhaeuser Company, Weyerhaeuser today sent the following response to Franklin Mutual Advisers.
 
December 14, 2006
Mr. Peter Langerman, Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Michael Embler, Chief Investment Officer
Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC
101 John F. Kennedy Parkway
Short Hills, New Jersey 07078
Dear Messrs. Langerman and Embler:
Thank you for your letter dated December 13, 2006. Our Board and I have reviewed it and appreciate your continued interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Weyerhaeusers Board of Directors and management are firmly committed to improving the companys financial performance and enhancing shareholder value. Our ongoing review of options to create additional value has included a detailed analysis of the benefits, complexities, and risks of various alternative structures. That review has led us to the determination that the most value creating alternative would be equitable tax treatment for C-corp. timberlands owners. We will continue to actively support the industry initiative for tax legislation, however, in light of the uncertainties surrounding a legislative remedy we are now revisiting alternatives.
As you note, during the last 18 months we have taken action to restructure Weyerhaeusers operations to create value for shareholders. In August 2006, we announced a definitive agreement to combine our Fine Paper business and related assets with Domtar. The transaction will give Weyerhaeuser shareholders 55 percent ownership in the new company, which will be the North American market leader in fine paper, and includes a $1.35 billion cash payment to Weyerhaeuser. The transaction with Domtar will provide Weyerhaeuser shareholders with the opportunity to participate in the benefits of owning the combined company. This compelling combination is expected to be tax-free for Weyerhaeuser and its shareholders and is on-track to close in the first quarter of 2007.
We have also closed or sold operations in order to enhance returns for shareholders and to position the company for improved performance. Some of the actions include:
 
2
 
 
With regard to the Containerboard Packaging restructuring, the benefits of increased customer service and more efficient asset utilization are already being realized. Upon completion of the restructuring, we expect to achieve substantial earnings improvements. We share your sense of urgency and are committed to completing the restructuring of these operations in the shortest time possible.
In addition to the actions discussed above, we strategically grew our real estate business through the acquisition of Maracay Homes to give us access to the high-growth markets of Phoenix and Tucson, and expanded existing real estate operations into the Portland, Oregon and Sacramento markets. We are also growing our timberlands in South America and we have begun a process of constructing converting facilities.
The Board has demonstrated a strong commitment to returning value to shareholders. Over the last 18 months, we have increased Weyerhaeusers annual dividend twice to $2.40 per share, an increase of 50 percent. We have also continued to aggressively execute on Weyerhaeusers 18 million share repurchase program.
We welcome the perspective of all Weyerhaeuser shareholders.
Sincerely,
Steven R. Rogel
Chairman, President & CEO
Weyerhaeuser Company
cc:  Board of Directors of Weyerhaeuser Company
 
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  December 14, 2006
 
 


