FILE:WY/WY-8K-20060426083046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Weyerhaeuser Reports First Quarter Earnings, Including Paper Business Goodwill Impairment
(April 26, 2006)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported a net loss of $580 million for first quarter 2006, or $2.36 per diluted share, on net sales of $5.4 billion. This includes an impairment of goodwill associated with the company's fine paper business.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Excluding the goodwill impairment of $746 million, the company earned $166 million, or 67 cents per diluted share. This compares with net earnings of $239 million, or 98 cents per diluted share, on net sales of $5.4 billion for the same period last year.
The company also announced today that, as a part of its previously announced strategic review, it is considering alternatives for its fine paper business. The alternatives range from continuing to hold and operate the assets to a possible sale or other disposition. The company said it is in active discussions with several parties, but there is no assurance that these discussions will lead to an agreement or result in a transaction.
"This announcement marks an important milestone in our ongoing strategic review," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We remain committed to seeking the best alternatives to create value for shareholders."
First quarter 2006 earnings include the following after-tax items:
First quarter 2005 earnings include the following after-tax items:
"During the quarter we began to see some improvement in market conditions for our cellulose fiber, fine paper, containerboard and packaging businesses which resulted in price improvement
 
in the first quarter," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We believe this trend will continue and have a positive effect upon our second quarter earnings."
SUMMARY OF FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR FIRST QUARTER (Contributions to Pre-Tax Earnings)
TIMBERLANDS
First quarter earnings increased slightly from the fourth quarter 2005 due to increasing Western log prices and lower first quarter operating costs in the West and South. Fourth quarter 2005 included a $6 million pre-tax charge due to the effects of Hurricane Katrina.
Weyerhaeuser expects second quarter market conditions and earnings to be similar to first quarter.
WOOD PRODUCTS
Earnings in the first quarter of 2006 were comparable to fourth quarter 2005 after excluding $91 million of pre-tax charges associated with facility closures taken in the fourth quarter of 2005. Construction activity remained healthy during the first quarter and prices were mixed.
Prices for oriented strand board were slightly lower than fourth quarter 2005 and shipment volumes were comparable.
Lumber prices trended up during the quarter. However, shipment volume decreased 7 percent.
Prices and shipment volumes for engineered lumber products were comparable to the prior quarter.
Manufacturing costs for lumber products remained constant quarter to quarter, and manufacturing costs for engineered products declined slightly primarily due to higher productivity.
The company incurred $11 million in countervailing and anti-dumping duties and related costs on Canadian softwood lumber the company sold into the United States in the first quarter of 2006, compared with $16 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Weyerhaeuser expects higher second quarter earnings compared with first quarter due to seasonal increase in building activity and stable raw materials and manufacturing costs.
 
CELLULOSE FIBER AND WHITE PAPERS
First quarter includes a goodwill impairment charge of $746 million. Fourth quarter 2005 includes closure related costs of $427 million for the Cosmopolis, Wash. pulp operations; Prince Albert, Saskatchewan pulp and paper operations; and a paper machine at Dryden, Ontario.
Excluding the charges, first quarter performance improved from fourth quarter 2005.
Fine paper and cellulose fiber products both experienced stronger market conditions, with prices increasing on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Fine paper sales volumes declined modestly with the January closure of Prince Albert paper operations while cellulose fiber volume improved slightly. Improved productivity and lower freight costs were offset by increases in raw materials and chemicals. Energy costs remained stable at their high level.
Weyerhaeuser expects the segment to show improved earnings in second quarter despite a seasonal increase in annual scheduled maintenance.
CONTAINERBOARD, PACKAGING AND RECYCLING
Earnings improved from the fourth quarter due to containerboard and packaging price increases. Packaging shipments declined from the strong fourth quarter levels, but were higher compared with the first quarter of last year. Fourth quarter 2005 results included pre-tax charges of $130 million for facility closures and $38 million for a settlement of containerboard antitrust lawsuits.
The company expects continued improvement in earnings from this segment in the second quarter.
REAL ESTATE AND RELATED ASSETS
Earnings decreased from fourth quarter due to decreased margins and seasonally lower single-family home closings. The number of single-family homes closed in first quarter declined 40 percent as compared to fourth quarter. First quarter results included land sales earnings of approximately $33 million and $17 million from insurance recoveries and partnership restructurings. Fourth quarter results included a $33 million pre-tax impairment charge related to unimproved land in Northern California. The backlog of homes sold, but not closed, at the end of the first quarter represents more than five months' sales. This level is similar to the backlog at the end of the fourth quarter.
Weyerhaeuser expects increased single-family closing activity in the second quarter. Total real estate and related earnings, however, are expected to decline slightly from the first quarter due to lower land sales.
The company will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on April 26 to discuss the first quarter results.
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-888-221-5699 at least 15 minutes before the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-706-643-3795. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-642-1687 (access code  7766499) from within North America and at 1-706-645-9291 (access code  7766499) from outside North America.
 
The call is being webcast through Weyerhaeuser's Internet site at by clicking on the "Q1 2006 Earnings Conference Call" link.
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomson/CCBN's individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomson's password-protected site, StreetEvents ().
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
http://www.streetevents.com
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest integrated forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2005, sales were $22.6 billion. It has offices or operations in 18 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at http://.
www.weyerhaeuser.com
This news release contains statements concerning the company's future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects," "may," "will," "believes," "should," "approximately," anticipates," "estimates," and "plans," and the negative or other variations of those terms or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward-looking statements deal with expectations regarding the company's markets in the second quarter 2006; expected earnings and performance of the company's business segments during the second quarter 2006, demand and pricing for the company's products in the second quarter 2006, stable raw material and manufacturing costs in the second quarter 2006, seasonal increase in building activity in the second quarter of 2006, seasonal increase in annual maintenance outages in the second quarter 2006, increased single-family housing closings in second quarter 2006, lower land sales in the second quarter of 2006, the completion of a transaction involving the fine paper business; and related matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to:
 
The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports, including the countervailing and anti-dumping duties imposed on the company's softwood lumber shipments from Canada to the United States. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the company's results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this news release.
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
          
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited) FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
(in millions)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited) FOOTNOTES TO CONTRIBUTION (CHARGE) TO EARNINGS           (in millions)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
                                                                      
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (unaudited)
(in millions)
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


