FILE:WY/WY-8K-20070119215349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 22, 2006, Weyerhaeuser Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2005 (Form 10-K). This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to recast certain financial information and footnotes from that Form 10-K.
Financial results of the company's North American and Irish composites operations, which were sold in July and November, 2006, respectively, have been reclassified as discontinued operations as discussed in Note 23: Discontinued Operations. The accompanying consolidated statement of earnings and consolidated balance sheet have been recast to reflect these additional discontinued operations. The consolidated balance sheet presentation of discontinued operations as of December 26, 2004, has also been recast to include the current and noncurrent balances of assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in their respective classifications.
During the second quarter of 2006, the company corrected the classification of rebates made on sales of certain wood products. In addition, the company corrected the classification of certain internal sales between Wood Products businesses that were previously reported as intersegment sales. As a result, balances for third-party and intersegment sales of the Wood Products segment have been reclassified to reflect these corrections. The classification correction resulted in a net decrease to consolidated third-party sales and revenues on the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings, but had no impact on contribution to earnings of any segment.
For additional information regarding the consolidated financial statements and footnotes that have been recast to reflect these changes, refer to Note 28: Recast Financial Information.
This Form 8-K only recasts the consolidated financial statements and footnotes of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2005, for the items set forth above. In order to preserve the nature and character of the disclosures set forth in such items as originally filed in the Form 10-K, except for the matters discussed in Note 24: Subsequent Events, no attempt has been made in this Form 8-K to reflect events occurring after the filing of the Form 10-K or to otherwise modify or update such disclosures except as required to reflect the effects of the items discussed above. Other events occurring after the filing of the Form 10-K or other disclosures necessary to reflect material subsequent events have been addressed in the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 26, 2006, June 25, 2006, and September 24, 2006, or on other Current Reports on Form 8-K, as have been filed with the SEC.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 19, 2007
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Weyerhaeuser Company:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Weyerhaeuser Company and subsidiaries as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and shareholders' interest and comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 25, 2005. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Weyerhaeuser Company and subsidiaries as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 25, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Weyerhaeuser Company and subsidiaries adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, , in 2003. Also, as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, Weyerhaeuser Company and subsidiaries adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), , in 2004.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
/s/ KPMG LLP
Seattle, Washington
February 21, 2006, except as to Notes 23,
24, and 28, which are as of January 19, 2007
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
(Dollar amounts in millions except per-share figures)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Dollar amounts in millions except share and per-share figures)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(continued)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Dollar amounts in millions)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(continued)
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' INTEREST AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Dollar amounts in millions)
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE THREE-YEAR PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 25, 2005
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Consolidation
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Weyerhaeuser Company and all of its majority-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, and variable interest entities of which Weyerhaeuser Company or its subsidiaries are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated. Investments in and advances to unconsolidated equity affiliates over which the company has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method with taxes provided on undistributed earnings.
Certain of the consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in two groupings: (1) Weyerhaeuser, principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber and the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products, and (2) Real Estate and Related Assets, principally engaged in real estate development and construction and other real estate related activities. The term "company" refers to Weyerhaeuser Company, all of its majority-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries and variable interest entities of which Weyerhaeuser Company or its subsidiaries are determined to be the primary beneficiary. The term "Weyerhaeuser" refers to the forest products-based operations and excludes the Real Estate and Related Assets operations.
Nature of Operations
    The company's business segments are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year End
    The company's fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of the calendar year. Each of the company's fiscal years in 2005, 2004 and 2003 had 52 weeks.
Accounting Pronouncements Implemented
    The company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, (Statement 143), as of the beginning of 2003. Statement 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The cumulative effect of adopting the accounting principle, after a tax benefit of $6 million, was a charge of $11 million, or 5 cents per share, basic and diluted.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
 
The adoption of the following recent accounting pronouncements did not have a material effect on the company's results of operations or financial condition:
 
 
Prospective Accounting Pronouncements
    The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), (Statement 123R)in December 2004. Statement 123R is a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, (Statement 123) Statement 123R requires the fair value of employee awards issued, modified, repurchased or cancelled after implementation under share-based payment arrangements to be measured as of the grant dates. The resulting cost will then be recognized in the statement of earnings over the service period. The company will implement Statement 123R as of the beginning of fiscal year 2006, as permitted by a Securities and Exchange Commission Rule that was issued in April 2005. The company is currently evaluating the effect that Statement 123R will have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows when Statement 123R is adopted.
Share-Based Payment
,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
.
The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, (Statement 151), in November 2004. Statement 151 amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, , to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Among other provisions, the new rule requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of "so abnormal" as stated in ARB No. 43. Additionally, Statement 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversions be based on normal capacity of the production facilities. Statement 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, and is required to be adopted by the company in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of Statement 151 will have on its financial position and results of operations, but does not expect it to be material.
Inventory Costs  An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4
Inventory Pricing
Use of Estimates
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Financial Instruments
    The company has, where appropriate, estimated the fair value of financial instruments. These fair value amounts may be significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of cash flows. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current market exchange. Where these estimates approximate carrying value, no separate disclosure of fair value is shown.
Derivatives
    The company uses well-defined financial contracts in the normal course of its operations as a means to manage its foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks. The company also uses other contracts that either do not provide for net settlement or are fixed-price contracts for future purchases and sales of various commodities for which the company applies the "normal purchases or normal sales" exclusion for accounting purposes.
The effective portions of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges and of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, are recognized in earnings.Changes in the fair value of all other derivative instruments not accounted for as hedges are also recognized in earnings in the period in which the changes occur.
 
 
Certain commodity contracts, primarily related to the purchase of energy, have been designated as cash flow hedges. In addition, entities that operate mills on a contract basis for the company and that the company has consolidated under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), , have variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements entered into with a bank in which the entities pay fixed rates and receive floating rates with the interest payments calculated on a notional amount. The interest rate swap agreements are being accounted for as cash flow hedges by the consolidated entities and changes in the fair value of these swaps are recorded in minority interest.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
In addition, the company has the following contracts that are not being accounted for as hedges:
 
 
The company is exposed to credit-related gains or losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instruments but does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. The annual notional amounts of the company's derivative financial instruments were $418 million and $387 million at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively. The aggregate notional amounts of these derivative financial instruments were $474 million and $486 million at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively. These notional amounts do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of exposure to the company through its use of derivatives. The exposure in a derivative contract is the net difference between what each party is required to pay based on contractual terms. The company's use of derivative instruments resulted in gains of approximately $22 million in 2005, $12 million in 2004 and $8 million in 2003.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     Short-term investments with original maturities of 90 days or less are considered cash equivalents. Short-term investments are stated at amortized cost, which approximates market.
Inventories
    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost includes labor, materials and production overhead. The last-in, first-out (LIFO) method is used to cost more than half of domestic raw materials, in process and finished goods inventories. LIFO inventories were $669 million and $670 million at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively. The balance of domestic raw material and product inventories, all materials and supplies inventories, and all foreign inventories is costed at either the first-in, first-out (FIFO) or moving average cost methods. Had the FIFO method been used to cost all inventories, the amounts at which product inventories are stated would have been $240 million and $203 million greater at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively.
Property and Equipment
    The company's property accounts are maintained on an individual asset basis. Improvements to and replacements of major units are capitalized. Maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are expensed. Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method at rates based on estimated service lives. Amortization of logging railroads and truck roads is provided generally as timber is harvested and is based upon rates determined with reference to the volume of timber estimated to be removed over such facilities.
The cost and accumulated depreciation of property sold or retired is removed from the accounts and the gain or loss is included in earnings.
Timber and Timberlands
    Timber and timberlands are carried at cost less depletion charged to disposals. Depletion is the cost of standing timber and is charged to fee timber disposals as fee timber is harvested, lost as a result of casualty,
 
 
or sold. Generally, all initial site preparation and planting costs are capitalized as reforestation. Reforestation is transferred to a merchantable (harvestable) timber classification after 15 years in the South and 30 years in the West. Generally, costs incurred after the first planting, such as fertilization, vegetation and insect control, pruning and precommercial thinning, property taxes and interest, are considered to be maintenance of the forest and are expensed as incurred. Accounting practices for these costs do not change when timber becomes merchantable and harvesting commences.
Depletion rates used to relieve timber inventory are determined with reference to the net carrying value of timber and the related volume of timber estimated to be available over the growth cycle. The growth cycle volume considers regulatory and environmental constraints affecting operable acres, management strategies to be applied, inventory data improvements, growth rate revisions and recalibrations, and the exclusion of known dispositions and inoperable acreage. The cost of timber harvested is included in the carrying values of raw material and product inventories and in the cost of products sold as these inventories are sold to third parties.
Weyerhaeuser also holds forest management licenses in various Canadian provinces. The provincial governments grant these licenses for initial periods of 1525 years, and the licenses are renewable every five years, provided the company meets normal reforestation, operating and management guidelines. Calculation of fees payable on harvested volumes varies from province to province, but is tied to product market pricing and the allocation of land management responsibilities agreed to in the license.
Goodwill
    Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually using a fair-value-based approach. The company's annual assessment is performed as of the beginning of the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.
Accounts Receivable
    The company periodically sold Canadian trade accounts receivable with limited recourse to an independently capitalized trust that, in turn, sold an undivided interest in the pool of receivables to a major international financial institution. The facility provided a competitive source of funding and was limited to $200 million (Canadian) at any one point in time, of which a maximum of $60 million could be denominated in U.S. dollars. The U.S. dollar equivalent of the sold receivables portfolio was $86 million as of December 26, 2004. The program was terminated in January 2005.
Accounts Payable
    The company's banking system provides for the daily replenishment of major bank accounts as checks are presented for payment. Accordingly, there were negative book cash balances of $284 million and $227 million at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively. Such balances result from outstanding checks that had not yet been paid by the bank and are reflected in accounts payable in the consolidated balance sheet.
Income Taxes
    Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.
Pension Plans
    The company has pension plans covering most of its employees. Both the U.S. and Canadian plans covering salaried employees provide pension benefits based on each employee's highest monthly earnings for five consecutive years during the final 10 years before retirement. Plans covering hourly employees generally provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service. The benefit levels for these plans are typically set through collective bargaining agreements with the unions representing the employees participating in the plans. Contributions to U.S. plans are based on funding standards established by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Contributions to Canadian plans are based on funding standards established by the applicable Provincial Pension Benefits Act and by the Income Tax Act.
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
    In addition to providing pension benefits, the company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for some retired employees and accrues the expected future cost of these benefits for its current eligible retirees and some employees over the period during which those employees provide services to the company. All of the company's salaried employees and some hourly employees may become eligible for these benefits when they retire.
 
 
Revenue Recognition
    Weyerhaeuser operations generally recognize revenue from product sales upon shipment to their customers, except for export sales where revenue is recognized when title transfers at the foreign port.
The company's Real Estate and Related Assets operations are primarily engaged in the development, construction and sale of residential homes. Real estate revenues are recognized when closings have occurred, required down payments have been received, title and possession have been transferred to the buyer, and all other criteria for sale and profit recognition have been satisfied.
Shipping and Handling Costs
    The company classifies shipping and handling costs in costs of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings.
Impairment of Long-lived Assets
    The company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with FASB Statement No. 144, . This statement requires management to review long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. The primary method used to estimate fair value is discounted cash flows.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
Stock-Based Employee Compensation
    The company's stock-based compensation plans are described in Note 21: Stock-Based Compensation Plans. The company continues to apply the intrinsic-value method for stock-based compensation to employees prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations.
As described in "Prospective Accounting Pronouncements," APB Opinion No. 25 will be superseded by Statement 123R effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2006. Employee awards issued, modified, repurchased or cancelled after implementation of Statement 123R under share-based payment arrangements will be measured at fair value as of the grant dates and the resulting cost will be recognized in the statement of earnings over the service period.
The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and net earnings per share as if the company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based employee compensation. The company has consistently defined the past year as the service period for purposes of applying the fair value recognition provisions of Statement 123. As a result, stock-based employee compensation expense is reflected as of the option grant dates in the following table.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
    Local currencies are considered the functional currencies for most of the company's operations outside the United States. Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at average monthly exchange rates prevailing during the year.
Real Estate and Related Assets
    Real estate held for sale is stated at the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. The determination of fair value is based on appraisals and market pricing of comparable assets, when available, or the discounted value of estimated future cash flows from these assets. Real estate and land held for development is stated at cost to the extent it does not exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, in which case it is carried at fair value.
 
 
Reclassifications
    Certain reclassifications have been made to conform prior years' data to the current format.
NOTE 2. NET EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share information follows:
 
Basic net earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common and exchangeable shares outstanding during the respective periods. Diluted net earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common and exchangeable shares and stock options outstanding at the beginning of or granted during the respective periods, calculated using the treasury stock method.
Options to purchase 2,500 shares in 2005, 153,900 shares in 2004 and 4,377,743 shares in 2003 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the option exercise prices were greater than the average market prices of common shares during those periods.
The dilutive effect of outstanding stock options on net earnings per share is presented in the following table:
 
 
 
NOTE 3. CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
The company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), (Interpretation 46R), as of March 28, 2004. Interpretation 46R addresses consolidation of certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
During 2002 through 2004, the company sold certain significant nonstrategic timberlands. See Note 19: Significant Sales of Nonstrategic Timberlands. The company began consolidating the assets and liabilities of the buyer-sponsored special purpose entities and the monetization special purpose entities (collectively "the SPEs") involved in these transactions as of December 26, 2004, as the result of a re-evaluation of Interpretation 46R. However, because the SPEs are separate and distinct legal entities from the company, the assets of the SPEs are not available to satisfy the liabilities and obligations of the company and the liabilities of the SPEs are not liabilities or obligations of the company. As of December 26, 2004, deferred gains on the sales of nonstrategic timberlands of $59 million were included in "Liabilities (nonrecourse to Weyerhaeuser) held by special purpose entities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. During the second quarter of 2005, following completion of the re-evaluation of Interpretation 46R, the balance of these deferred gains was recognized in income, resulting in a $57 million pretax gain on previous timberlands sales.
Sales proceeds paid to buyer-sponsored SPEs are invested in restricted bank financial instruments of $909 million as of both December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004. As of December 25, 2005, maturities of the bank financial instruments were as follows: $110 million in 2012, $184 million in 2013, $253 million in 2019, and $362 million in 2020. The weighted average interest rate on the bank financial instruments was 5.15 percent as of December 25, 2005, and 4.5 percent as of December 26, 2004. The monetization SPEs had long-term debt of $756 million as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004. As of December 25, 2005, maturities of the debt were as follows: $92 million in 2012, $153 million in 2013, $209 million in 2018, and $302 million in 2019. The weighted average interest rate on the debt was 5.50 percent as of December 25, 2005, and 4.85 percent as of December 26, 2004. The monetization SPEs are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by the banks, but the company does not expect the banks to fail to meet their obligations. The accompanying consolidated statement of earnings includes interest expense on SPE debt of $45 million and interest income on SPE investments of $52 million in 2005. No comparable activity is included in interest income or interest expense in 2004 or 2003.
The company's real estate development subsidiaries enter into options to acquire lots at fixed prices in the ordinary course of business, primarily for the purpose of building single-family homes. In addition, a subsidiary in the Real Estate and Related Assets segment provides subordinated financing to third-party developers and homebuilders. Both fixed-price purchase options and subordinated financing constitute variable interests under Interpretation 46R. The company's real estate subsidiaries have consolidated five entities under Interpretation 46R, with estimated assets and liabilities of $62 million as of December 25, 2005, and $45 million as of December 26, 2004. As of December 25, 2005, the company's real estate development subsidiaries have 16 lot option purchase agreements entered into prior to December 31, 2003, with deposits of approximately $38 million at risk. After exhaustive efforts, the company has not been able to obtain the information necessary to determine whether or not it is required to consolidate any of these entities under Interpretation 46R. The total amount that would be paid under these purchase options, if fully exercised, is approximately $160 million. In addition, as of December 25, 2005, the company's real estate development subsidiaries have 15 lot option purchase agreements with entities created after December 30, 2003, with deposits of approximately $16 million at risk, where the company is not the primary beneficiary and is not required to consolidate the entities. The total amount that would be paid under these option purchase agreements, if fully exercised, is approximately $231 million. One of the company's real estate subsidiaries has approximately $10 million in subordinated loans at risk at December 25, 2005, in 32 variable interest entities.
NOTE 4. EQUITY AFFILIATES
Investments in unconsolidated equity affiliates over which the company has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method with taxes provided on undistributed earnings.
 
 
Weyerhaeuser
Weyerhaeuser's significant equity affiliates as of December 25, 2005, are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company sold its interests in SCA Weyerhaeuser Packaging Holding Company Asia Ltd. (SCA) in June 2004 and MAS Capital Management Partners, L.P. (MAS) in July 2005. The company received net cash proceeds of approximately $115 million for the sale of its interest in MAS and recognized a pretax gain on the sale of MAS of approximately $115 million in the third quarter of 2005. This gain is included in interest income and other in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings.
Unconsolidated financial information for affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method, including information for SCA and MAS for the periods that the company held interests in SCA and MAS, are as follows:
 
 
Weyerhaeuser provides goods and services to these affiliates, which vary by entity, in the form of raw materials, management and marketing services, support services and shipping services. Additionally, Weyerhaeuser purchases finished product from certain of these entities. The aggregate total of these transactions is not material to Weyerhaeuser's results of operations.
 
 
Real Estate and Related Assets
Unconsolidated financial information for unconsolidated entities that are accounted for by the equity method is as follows:
 
 
NOTE 5. GOODWILL
The following table provides a reconciliation of changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during 2005:
 
Goodwill associated with the company's B.C. Coastal operations was included in the carrying value of the net assets of B.C. Coastal and was written off in connection with the B.C. Coastal sale which occurred during the second quarter of 2005. The balance of this goodwill as of December 26, 2004, was classified as "Assets of discontinued operations" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and is not included in the reconciliation above. Both the Timberlands and Wood Products segments had goodwill associated with the B.C. Coastal operations.
Refer to Note 24: Subsequent Events for additional information.
NOTE 6. INCOME TAXES
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle are comprised of the following:
 
 
 
Provisions for income taxes from continuing operations include the following:
 
A reconciliation between the federal statutory tax rate and the company's effective tax rate applicable to continuing operations is as follows:
 
The net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) of continuing operations include the following components:
 
 
 
The deferred tax assets (liabilities) of continuing operations are comprised of the following:
 
During the third quarter of 2005, the company recognized a one-time deferred tax benefit of $14 million resulting from a change in the Ohio state income tax law. During the fourth quarter of 2005, a one-time reduction in the British Columbia provincial corporate income tax rate was also enacted producing a one-time deferred tax benefit of $7 million. Both benefits were due to the effect of the lower tax rates on accumulated temporary differences.
As of December 25, 2005, the company and its subsidiaries have foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $256 million, which expire from 2008 through 2014 and $154 million which do not expire.
The company intends to reinvest undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries; therefore, no U.S. taxes have been provided on such earnings. These earnings totaled approximately $680 million through the end of 2005. Determination of the income tax liability that would result from repatriation is not practicable.
On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) became law. The AJCA includes a deduction of 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the AJCA. Based on this legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of Treasury, the company repatriated $1.1 billion of foreign earnings in July 2005. A charge of $44 million related to the repatriation was accrued in the second quarter of 2005 and is included in income taxes (from continuing operations) in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings.
The company previously disclosed that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has asserted that approximately $322 million of solid waste disposal revenue bonds do not qualify as tax-exempt. The company has settled this dispute with the IRS with respect to $175 million of the bonds, and continues to contest the assertion with respect to the remaining bonds, none of which are outstanding. The remaining tax issues are in the appeals process. The company does not expect any future charges related to this matter to have a material or adverse affect on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
As of December 25, 2005, $14 million of the $97 million valuation allowance would be allocated to reduce goodwill if the tax benefits are subsequently recognized. The net $21 million decrease in the valuation allowance from December 26, 2004, to December 25, 2005, is a result of the following: $42 million decrease is due to sale of discontinued operations; $3 million decrease is due to expired tax credits; $10 million increase is due to acquired foreign losses; and $14 million increase is due to additional foreign losses. The valuation allowance increased by $13 million from December 28, 2003, to December 26, 2004, due to an increase in foreign losses and credits, partially offset by expired tax credits.
NOTE 7. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The company sponsors several retirement programs for its employees. In the United States, this includes pension plans that are qualified under the Internal Revenue Code (qualified) as well as a plan that provides benefits in addition to
 
 
those provided under the qualified plans for a select group of employees, which is not qualified under the Internal Revenue Code (nonqualified). In Canada, plans are registered under the Income Tax Act and under their respective provincial pension acts (registered), or plans may provide additional benefits to a select group of employees, and not be registered under the Income Tax Act or provincial pension acts (nonregistered). Retiree medical and life plans are offered in both countries. These plans are typically not prefunded. The company uses a December 31 measurement date for its plans.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the plans' benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets over the two-year period ended December 25, 2005:
 
The company funds its qualified and registered pension plans and a portion of its nonregistered plans. The company accrues for nonqualified pension benefits and health and life postretirement benefits. The company does not expect to have an obligation to fund its U.S. plans in 2006, but does expect to contribute approximately $47 million to its Canadian pension plans in 2006.
 
 
The company estimates the projected benefit payments under its U.S. and Canadian pension and other postretirement benefit plans over the next ten years will be as follows:
 
The funded status of these plans at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, is as follows:
 
Assets at year end are estimated due to timing and the nature of the underlying investments. The estimated pension asset value as of December 26, 2004, was $4.8 billion compared to an actual asset value of $5.0 billion. The estimated postretirement asset value as of December 26, 2004, was approximately $3 million compared to an actual asset value of approximately $2 million.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all of the company's defined benefit pension plans was $4.8 billion and $4.4 billion at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively.
The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $1 billion, $968 million and $780 million, respectively, as of December 25, 2005, and $887 million, $818 million and $617 million, respectively, as of December 26, 2004.
 
 
DESCRIPTION OF INVESTMENT POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
Qualified and Registered Plans
    The strategy of the U.S. pension trust is to invest directly and via total return partnership swaps in a diversified mix of nontraditional strategies, including hedge funds, private equity, opportunistic real estate and other externally managed alternative investment funds. Equity index and fixed income derivative instruments are used to supplement the market exposures embedded in such investments. These additional financial instruments constitute indirect investments held by the U.S. pension trust that serve to increase the return and risk profile of the investment portfolio. The overall return earned by the pension trust is the aggregate of returns earned on direct investments and returns earned on the derivatives. The Canadian pension trust has a similar investment strategy. However, it concentrates direct investments into cash and cash equivalents while gaining return exposures through financial instruments, such as total return and index swaps. The company has not established target allocations for the direct investment portfolio or the derivatives.
The qualified and registered plans are exposed to the risk of nonperformance by counterparties to the indirect investments but the company does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. However, because there are no exchanges of principal on the indirect investments, only the amount of unsettled net receivables is at risk. The company manages this risk through selection of counterparties with a defined minimum credit quality, diversification, settlement provisions and documented agreements. Investments in hedge funds and private partnerships are controlled through selection and diversification of managers and strategies and use of limited liability vehicles. Portfolio risk is managed through diversification and by constraining the risk profile of the portfolio within defined boundaries.
Nonregistered Plans
    The Canadian nonregistered plans are funded using Retirement Compensation Arrangements (RCAs). Under Canadian tax rules, 50 percent of any contribution to an RCA goes to a non-interest-bearing refundable tax account held by the government. This means that on average over time, it is expected that approximately 50 percent of the plans' assets are not invested. The invested portion of the plans' assets consists of a portfolio of equities.
Retiree Life Insurance
    The plan is funded by a Premium Deposit Fund (PDF) held by the insurance carrier. The fund is used to pay premiums for current retirees covered under the U.S. retiree life insurance plan for salaried employees. The company's intent is to pay these premiums from the fund and to make no future contributions to the fund. It is expected that the fund will be fully drawn down in the next fiscal year or shortly thereafter.
ALLOCATION OF ASSETS BY CATEGORY
 
 
 
DERIVATIVES
The approximate fair value of derivatives held by the qualified and registered plans as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, is as follows:
 
The total approximate notional amount of derivatives held by the qualified and registered plans as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, is as follows:
 
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS
The assumptions used in the measurement of the company's benefit obligations are as follows:
 
 
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 
The assumptions used in the measurement of the company's net periodic benefit costs are as follows:
 
DETERMINATION OF EXPECTED RETURN ON PLAN ASSETS ASSUMPTION
Qualified and Registered Plans
    The expected return on plan assets assumption reflects the company's best estimate regarding the long-term expected return on the U.S. portfolio. The expected return assumption is based on historical fund returns. The Canadian fund's investment strategy has mirrored that of the U.S. plan since 1998. Over the period of 20 years during which this investment strategy has been pursued, the U.S. fund has achieved a net compound annual return of 17.5 percent. The determination of the expected return on plan assets assumption requires a high degree of judgment and places weight on more recent pension plan asset performance. The expected return on plan assets assumption as of December 25, 2005, is comprised of the following expected returns:
 
 
 
The composition of the actual return on plan assets in each of the years in the three-year period ended December 25, 2005, is as follows:
 
Nonregistered Plans
    The expected rate of return on the assets supporting the nonregistered plans is 4.75 percent per year. This includes an expected long-term rate of return on the equity portion of this portfolio of 9.50 percent per year based on a combination of historical experience and future return expectations. As noted above, 50 percent of contributions to this plan are held in a non-interest-bearing account held by the Canadian government.
Retiree Life Insurance
    The expected long-term rate of return on this fund is 3.79 percent. This is based on historical interest credited on the fund.
OTHER INFORMATION
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. For measurement purposes, the following assumptions were used for the annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits:
 
A one percent change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
In addition to the company-sponsored pension and postretirement plans discussed above, approximately 3,700 employees are covered by union-administered multi-employer pension plans to which the company makes negotiated contributions based generally on fixed amounts per hour per employee. Contributions to these plans were approximately $13 million in 2005 and 2004, and $16 million in 2003.
The company also sponsors multiple postretirement plans for its U.S. employees. Medical plans have various levels of coverage and plan participant contributions. Life insurance plans are noncontributory. Canadian employees are covered under multiple postretirement plans that provide medical and life insurance benefits.
The company sponsors various defined contribution plans for U.S. and Canadian salaried and hourly employees. The basis for determining plan contributions varies by plan. The amounts contributed to the plans for participating employees were approximately $61 million, $57 million, and $58 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
NOTE 8. INVENTORIES
 
NOTE 9. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
Estimated service lives for buildings and improvements are generally at the high and low end of the range disclosed above, depending on the type and permanence of construction. Maximum service lives for machinery and equipment used in timberlands operations, wood products manufacturing facilities and primary pulp and paper mills are 15 years, 20 years, and 25 years, respectively. Estimated service lives of assets acquired in purchase business combinations represent the estimated remaining useful lives of the assets as of the date of the acquisitions and have shorter service lives than assets constructed or purchased new by the company. Depreciation expense was $1.2 billion for each of 2005, 2004 and 2003.
NOTE 10. REAL ESTATE IN PROCESS OF DEVELOPMENT AND FOR SALE
Properties held by the company's Real Estate and Related Assets segment include:
 
 
 
NOTE 11. ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
NOTE 12. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LINES OF CREDIT
Borrowings
    Weyerhaeuser had $3 million in short-term borrowings outstanding as of both December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004.
The Real Estate and Related Assets segment's short-term borrowings were $7 million, including a $3 million non-interest bearing note, at December 25, 2005, and $2 million on one non-interest bearing note at December 26, 2004. Weyerhaeuser Company guarantees commercial paper borrowings of Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Company (WRECO) in return for a fee equal to one-quarter of 1 percent of the outstanding commercial paper balance. To keep the guarantee, WRECO has agreed to maintain unused non-guaranteed credit arrangements that are equal to or greater than the outstanding commercial paper. WRECO paid no fees to Weyerhaeuser in 2005. Fees paid by WRECO to Weyerhaeuser Company were less than $1 million in 2004 and 2003.
Lines of Credit
    Weyerhaeuser Company had a short-term bank credit line of $1.2 billion under a 364-day revolving facility at December 26, 2004. The 364-day revolving line of credit expired in March 2005.
In March 2005, Weyerhaeuser Company and Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Company (WRECO) entered into a $1.2 billion 5-year revolving credit facility to replace the 364-day revolving credit facility that expired. The new 5-year facility expires March 2010. WRECO can borrow up to $400 million under this facility. Neither Weyerhaeuser Company nor WRECO is a guarantor of the borrowings of the other under this facility.
In addition, Weyerhaeuser Company has a revolving credit facility agreement entered into with a group of banks that expires in March 2007 and that provided for borrowings up to a total amount of $1.3 billion, all of which was available to Weyerhaeuser Company. In August 2005, the company reduced the capacity under this facility to $800 million, all of which is available to Weyerhaeuser Company. Borrowings are at LIBOR plus a spread or other such interest rates mutually agreed to between the borrower and lending banks.
In December 2005, Weyerhaeuser Limited entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with a group of banks that expires in December 2008 and that provides for borrowings up to a total amount of $200 million (Canadian), or approximately $172 million (U.S), all of which was fully drawn upon as of December 25, 2005. Weyerhaeuser Company is a guarantor of the borrowings of Weyerhaeuser Limited under this facility.
As of December 25, 2005, the company has $517 million in letters of credit against the March 2010 credit facility, primarily related to an appeal bond posted in the Paragon litigation (see Note 15: Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies). Of the total committed bank facilities of $2.2 billion, $1.5 billion was available as of December 25, 2005, for incremental borrowings.
Other    
 Weyerhaeuser has entered into letters of credit in the amount of $636 million and surety bonds with an estimated amount of $758 million as of December 25, 2005. As of December 26, 2004, Weyerhaeuser had entered into letters of credit in the amount of $124 million and surety bonds with an estimated amount of $249 million. As discussed above, the increase in letters of credit and surety bonds from December 26, 2004, to December 25, 2005, is primarily due to the appeal bond posted in the Paragon litigation.
 
 
The Real Estate and Related Assets segment has entered into letters of credit in the amount of $32 million and $22 million and surety bonds with an estimated amount of $559 million and $575 million as of December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively.
The company's compensating balance requirements were not significant.
NOTE 13. LONG-TERM DEBT
Weyerhaeuser long-term debt, including the current portion, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Real Estate and Related Assets segment long-term debt, including the current portion, is as follows:
 
 
NOTE 14. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on quoted market prices for the same issues or on the discounted value of the future cash flows expected to be paid using incremental rates of borrowing for similar liabilities.
NOTE 15. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Hardboard Siding Claims
    In June 2000, the company entered into a nationwide settlement of hardboard siding class action cases and recognized a charge of $130 million before taxes to cover the estimated cost of the settlement and related claims. The settlement class consists of all persons who own or owned structures in the United States on which the company's hardboard siding had been installed from January 1, 1981, through December 31, 1999. This is a claims-based settlement, which means the claims will be paid as submitted over a nine-year period. An independent adjuster reviews claims submitted and determines payment under the terms of the settlement agreement. Reserves for future claims settlements relating to hardboard siding cases require judgments regarding projections of future claims rates and
 
 
amounts. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2005, the company had approximately $52 million in reserves remaining for hardboard siding claims. The company believes the reserve balances established for these matters are adequate, but is unable to estimate at this time the amount of additional charges, if any, that may be required for these matters in the future.
The following table presents an analysis of the claims activity related to the hardboard siding class action cases:
 
The lower average damage award paid in 2004 was due primarily to a lower number of awards for multi-family structures in 2004 than in 2003 or 2005.
The company has received $52 million in recoveries from its insurance carriers by way of negotiated settlements.
The company currently has no litigation pending with any person or entity that has opted out of the settlement. Individuals and entities that have opted out of the settlement may file lawsuits against the company in the future.
Linerboard Antitrust Litigation
    In May 1999, two civil antitrust lawsuits were filed against the company in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Both suits named as defendants several other major containerboard and packaging producers. The complaint in the first case alleged the defendants conspired to fix the price of linerboard and that the alleged conspiracy had the effect of increasing the price of corrugated containers. The suit requested class certification for purchasers of corrugated containers during the period from October 1993 through November 1995. The complaint in the second case alleged that the company conspired to manipulate the price of linerboard and thereby the price of corrugated sheets. The suit requested class certification for purchasers of corrugated sheets during the period from October 1993 through November 1995.
The company settled the two lawsuits and a pretax charge of $23 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2003. Approximately 165 members of the classes opted out of the class and filed thirteen lawsuits against the company and other producers. The company settled three of the lawsuits and recognized a pretax charge of $12 million in the first quarter of 2005. The company settled all but one of the remaining opt-out cases and recognized a pretax charge of $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The company believes that the reserve balances established for these matters are adequate, and expects the amount of additional charges, if any, that may be required for the sole remaining opt-out case to be inconsequential.
In March 2004, La Cie McCormick Canada Company filed a class action lawsuit in Superior Court of Justice, in Ontario, Canada against the company and other linerboard manufacturers on behalf of all Canadians who purchased corrugated products, including sheets and containers and/or linerboard, during the period of time from 1993 to at least the end of 1995. The allegations mirror the allegations in the U.S. cases. General damages of $25 million and $10 million in punitive damages are sought. At this stage, the company cannot calculate what portion of the damages requested would be argued as the company's responsibility. Canadian law does not provide for a trebling of antitrust damages. The company has not recorded a reserve for the matter, and does not expect any future charges that may be taken for this matter to have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
Alder Antitrust Litigation
    In December 2000, a lawsuit was filed against the company in U.S. District Court in Oregon (the Initial Alder Case) alleging from 1996 to the present the company had monopoly power or attempted to gain monopoly power in the Pacific Northwest market for alder logs and finished alder lumber. A jury verdict of trebled damages of $79 million was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit where the decision was upheld. In September 2005, the company asked for discretionary review of the Initial Alder Case by the U.S. Supreme Court. In November 2005, the U.S. Supreme Court asked the Solicitor General to express the opinions of the United States on whether to accept review.
 
 
In January 2005, the company received a copy of a "complaint in equity" filed in U.S. District Court in Oregon to set aside the judgment in the Initial Alder Case on behalf of a plaintiff who did not prevail in the trial. It alleged a fraud was committed on the court and requested judgment against the plaintiff be vacated and a new trial set on plaintiff's claim of monopolization of the alder sawlog market. Trebled damages of $20 million are alleged. The U.S. District Court stayed this matter until the U.S. Supreme Court takes final action in the Initial Alder Case. The company denies the allegations in the complaint and intends to vigorously defend the matter.
In June 2003, Washington Alder filed an antitrust lawsuit against the company in U.S. District Court in Oregon alleging monopolization of the alder log and lumber markets and seeking trebled damages of $36 million and divestiture of the company's Northwest Hardwoods Division and alder sawmills in Oregon, Washington and British Columbia. A jury verdict of trebled damages of $16 million was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. After oral argument in November 2005, the matter was stayed pending a final disposition by the U.S. Supreme Court of the Initial Alder Case.
In 2004 the company settled similar lawsuits filed against the company by five hardwood mill owners in the U.S. District Court in Oregon.
In April 2004, a civil class action antitrust lawsuit was filed against the company in U.S. District Court in Oregon claiming that as a result of the company's alleged monopolization of the alder sawlog market in the Pacific Northwest as determined in the Initial Alder Case, the company monopolized the market for finished alder and charged monopoly prices for finished alder lumber. In December 2004, the Judge issued an order certifying the plaintiff as a class representative for all U.S. purchasers of finished alder lumber between April 28, 2000, and March 31, 2004, for purposes of awarding monetary damages. The company denies the allegations in the complaint and intends to vigorously defend the matter. In February 2005, class counsel notified the court that approximately 5 percent of the class members opted out of the class action lawsuit. The company has no litigation pending with any entity that has opted out of the class, but it is possible that entities who have opted out may file lawsuits against the company in the future. The case was stayed in the fourth quarter of 2005 pending the U.S. Supreme Court entering a final opinion in the Initial Alder Case.
Changes in the amount accrued for alder antitrust litigation matters follows:
 
While the company believes the reserve established for the alder antitrust litigation is adequate, the company is unable to estimate what additional charges, if any, may be required in the future, because of the uncertainties surrounding the litigation process.
Paragon Trade Brands, Inc. Litigation
    In 1999, the Equity Committee (Committee) in the Paragon Trade Brands, Inc. (Paragon), bankruptcy proceeding commenced an adversary proceeding against the company in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Georgia asserting the company breached certain warranties in agreements between Paragon and the company connected with Paragon's public offering of common stock in February 1993. The Committee sought to recover damages sustained by Paragon in two patent infringement cases, one brought by Procter & Gamble and the other by Kimberly-Clark. In June 2002, the Bankruptcy Court held the company liable for breaches of warranty. In the second quarter of 2005, the Bankruptcy Court imposed damages of approximately $470 million. The company appealed the liability and damages determinations to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia and posted a bond of $500 million. The company has not established a reserve for this matter because, based upon the information currently available to the company, including management's belief that an adverse result is not probable because the company will prevail on appeal, management believes the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, (Statement 5), for establishing a reserve in this matter have not been
Accounting for Contingencies
 
 
met. However, there is no guarantee that management will not determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any damage award is required. Any such charge could materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations for the quarter or the year in which such a charge may be recognized.
Other Litigation
    The company is party to other matters generally incidental to its business in addition to the matters described above.
Summary
    Although the final outcome of any legal proceeding is subject to a great many variables and cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, management currently believes that adequate reserves have been established for probable losses from litigation when the amounts could be reasonably determined. Management further believes that the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings could materially adversely affect results of operations, cash flows or financial condition in any given quarter or year, but will not have a material adverse effect on the company's long-term results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
COUNTERVAILING AND ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES
Softwood Lumber Imported into the United States from Canada
In April 2001, the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports (Coalition) filed two petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce (Department) and the International Trade Commission (ITC) claiming that production of softwood lumber in Canada was being subsidized by Canada and that imports from Canada were being "dumped" into the U.S. market (sold at less than fair value). The Coalition asked that countervailing duty (CVD) and anti-dumping (AD) tariffs be imposed on softwood lumber imported from Canada.
In March 2002, the Department confirmed its preliminary finding that certain Canadian provinces were subsidizing logs by failing to collect full market price for stumpage. The Department established a final CVD rate of 18.79 percent. In the AD proceedings, the Department found that the six Canadian manufacturers examined, including the company, were engaged in sales at less than fair value and set cash deposit rates ranging from 2.18 percent to 12.44 percent. The company's deposit rate was set at 12.39 percent. Because of statutory limitations that affected timing, the bonds covering duties following the preliminary determinations were released by the United States. The resulting reversal of accrued expenses was included in earnings during 2002.
In May 2002, the ITC confirmed its earlier ruling that U.S. industry is threatened by subsidized and dumped imports and the company began making cash deposits relating to the CVD and AD actions. In June 2003, the Department began the process of the annual reviews to determine the final duty rates under both CVD and AD for annual periods commencing with the period from May 22, 2002, through March 31, 2003, for CVD and through April 30, 2003, for AD. The annual review process will be conducted covering successive one-year periods for five years. In 2007, both the CVD duty and AD orders will be automatically reviewed in a "sunset" proceeding to determine whether dumping will continue or a countervailing subsidy is likely to recur if the relevant order were to be revoked. As a result of administrative determinations and the first and second annual administrative reviews, the combined CVD and AD rate charged on Weyerhaeuser shipments of Canadian softwood lumber into the United States was reduced from 31.18 percent to 24.36 percent effective for the first quarter of 2005, and from 24.36 percent to 13.13 percent effective for the first quarter of 2006.
On December 2, 2005, the company filed a request with the Department for a review of its cash deposit rate due to the sale of the B.C. Coastal Group to Brascan in May 2005. The company believes that the sale constitutes a changed circumstance and the cash deposit rate should be substantially lower. On January 19, 2006, the Department announced that it will conduct a changed circumstances review.
The CVD and AD tariffs are currently under review and challenge in several forums, including NAFTA panels, the ITC, and the WTO. These proceedings include:
Appeals of Administrative Reviews.
    The company has appealed the AD determination in the First Administrative Review to the Court of International Trade (CIT). On the same date, the Coalition appealed both the CVD and AD determinations to the CIT. The various actions filed in the CIT relating to the AD determination have been consolidated by court order. Both parties have also appealed the CVD determination in the First Administrative Review to NAFTA panels. It is expected that both parties will file appeals of the final determinations in the Second Administrative Review to NATFA panels.
 
 
NAFTA Injury Panel.
    On September 1, 2004, the NAFTA Injury Panel ordered the ITC to reverse its earlier decision of injury and on September 11, 2004, the ITC agreed that the U.S. softwood lumber industry is not threatened with material injury by reason of softwood imports from Canada. In October 2004, the NAFTA Panel affirmed the ITC's decision. The final NAFTA decision on injury was challenged by the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) before a newly constituted panel called the Extraordinary Challenge Committee (ECC). In August 2005, the ECC upheld the NAFTA decision on injury. The Coalition has filed a constitutional challenge of NAFTA at the US Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
WTO Injury Review.
    With the support of provincial governments, the federal government of Canada also moved for reviews by dispute settlement panels under the World Trade Organization (WTO). In March 2004, a WTO panel announced its final ruling on injury, faulting an ITC finding of a threat of injury resulting from dumped and subsidized imports of softwood lumber from Canada.
In June 2004, pursuant to U.S. law, the USTR asked the ITC to provide an advisory report as to whether it can implement the WTO's decision against the ITC on threat of injury. In July 2004, the USTR also asked the ITC to issue a new decision on "threat of injury" to bring the United States into compliance with the WTO decision finding against the ITC on injury. Section 129 of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act provides the basic provisions through which the U.S. implements new AD and CVD determinations to make them consistent with an adverse WTO report. The ITC formally began the Section 129 review process in early August 2004 and issued a new determination on November 24, 2004, reaffirming that imports of Canadian softwood lumber pose a threat of injury to U.S. industry. In January 2005, Canada requested that a NAFTA panel review this ITC decision on threat of injury. Canada has also sought authorization from WTO to impose $3.4 billion in sanctions on the U.S. for failure to revoke the CVD and AD deposits pursuant to the WTO's decision on injury. The U.S. challenged the Canadian request before the WTO. In November 2005, the WTO Panel issued a final decision upholding the ITC's finding of injury. The decision has been appealed to the WTO Appellate Body.
WTO Review of AD and CVD Determinations.
    On August 11, 2004, the WTO Appellate Body held the U.S. practice of using zeroing to calculate antidumping margins during the investigation process was improper. The Department has issued a new determination under Section 129 for AD rates to comply with the WTO's determination which is currently on appeal to the WTO. On February 14, 2004, the WTO Appellate Body held that the Department's countervailing decision was contrary to the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. On November 9, 2004, the USTR asked the Department to undertake a Section 129 process to comply with the WTO Appellate Body decision. Canada has sought a compliance review at the WTO for the failure of the U.S. to fully implement the WTO CVD decision. A decision is expected later in the year. In addition, Canada has filed a request for a NAFTA panel to review the Section 129 CVD decision.
Byrd Amendment.
    The WTO appeals body has affirmed a panel ruling against the United States that the so-called "Byrd Amendment," which provides for the distribution of AD and CVD duties to petitioners, is inconsistent with U.S. international obligations. On September 1, 2004, the WTO gave Canada and other countries the right to impose trade sanctions on the United States in retaliation for collecting such duties and making them available for distribution under the Byrd Amendment. On March 31, 2005, Canada announced a retaliation surtax commencing May 1, 2005, of 15 percent against certain U.S. goods exported to Canada. The aggregate amount of this surtax is approximately $14 million (Canadian). The U.S. Administration for a number of years signaled that it will introduce legislation to repeal the Byrd Amendment. The House of Representatives on November 18, 2005, as part of a vote on other legislation, voted to repeal the Byrd Amendment, but the Senate amended the House repeal language when it voted to approve the repeal on December 21, 2005. The Senate amendment postpones the effect of the repeal until October 1, 2007. On August 26, 2005, Canada filed a challenge to the Byrd Amendment in the U.S. Court of International Trade alleging that even under U.S. law, the Byrd Amendment is not applicable to Canada. Oral argument is scheduled for April 2006 with a decision expected in July 2006. There also are two cases pending at the Court of International Trade (unrelated to the softwood case) challenging the constitutionality of the Byrd Amendment.
Through December 2005, the company has paid a cumulative total of $345 million in CVD and AD duties and $21 million in related costs on softwood lumber the company has imported into the United States from Canada. The deposits made against the CVD and AD duties have been recognized as sales deductions in the consolidated statement
 
 
of earnings. It is difficult to predict the net effect final duties will have on the company. In the event that final rates differ from the depository rates, ultimate charges may be higher or lower than those recorded to date. The company is unable to estimate at this time the amount of additional charges or reversals that may be necessary for this matter in the future. The company believes there should be a negotiated settlement to the softwood lumber dispute and supports efforts to reach a long-term solution to resolve this matter. The U.S. and Canadian governments continue to discuss ways to settle the softwood lumber dispute, but there can be no assurance that they will be able to reach an agreement.
Refer to Note 24: Subsequent Events for additional information.
Kraft Liner/Linerboard Exported from the United States into the People's Republic of China
In January 2004, the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China (MOC) received a petition requesting an anti-dumping investigation on imports of unbleached kraft liner/linerboard originating in the United States, Thailand, Korea and Taiwan. The MOC conducted an investigation based on the allegations contained in the petition for the period from January 1, 2003, to December 31, 2003, and an investigation for injury to the Chinese industry for the period from January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2003. Weyerhaeuser and four other producers in the United States were included in the investigation. A final determination was issued on September 30, 2005, setting Weyerhaeuser's anti-dumping tariff at 12.9 percent, effective as of September 30, 2005. The anti-dumping duties were paid by Weyerhaeuser's customers in China. In January 2006, the MOC announced termination of its tariffs against the United States, Taiwan, Korea and Thailand due to procedural deficiencies.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
In late 2002, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a notice of violation (NOV) for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at the company's Hawesville, Kentucky, pulp and paper mill. The company settled the matter and paid a penalty of approximately $150,000.
In November 2004, the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality  Air Quality Division (DEQ) issued a NOV for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at the company's Wright City, Oklahoma, wood products facility. Management has been discussing the issues with the DEQ to resolve the matters alleged in the NOV and believes that settlement of the matter may include payment of a civil penalty of approximately $100,000.
In October 2005, the company notified the EPA and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources that a self-audit of its Flint River pulp mill in Oglethorpe, Georgia revealed certain areas that were not in compliance with the Clean Air Act. The company has submitted a remediation plan to both agencies that is designed to get the mill back into compliance as quickly as possible. No penalties have been assessed or paid related to this matter.
In December 2005, the Ohio Attorney General's Office notified Weyerhaeuser that it plans to initiate a Clean Air Act enforcement action against Weyerhaeuser Company Packaging, Inc. (a former subsidiary of the company) arising out of its operation of corrugated container manufacturing plants in Valley View and Bedford Heights, Ohio. The Attorney General's Office has indicated that it plans to request injunctive relief and approximately $500,000 in civil penalties, of which a portion could be contributed to supplemental environmental projects identified by Ohio. Management has been discussing resolution of the issue with Ohio EPA and the Attorney General's Office.
The company is also a party to various proceedings relating to the cleanup of hazardous waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as "Superfund," and similar state laws. The EPA and/or various state agencies have notified the company that it may be a potentially responsible party with respect to other hazardous waste sites as to which no proceedings have been instituted against the company. The company has established reserves totaling $29 million for estimated remediation costs on all of the approximately 70 active sites across its operations. Environmental remediation reserves totaled $38 million at the end of 2004. The decrease in environmental remediation reserves reflects the incorporation of new information on all sites concerning remediation alternatives, updates on prior cost estimates and new sites, and the costs incurred to remediate these sites during this period. The company accrued remediation costs of $5 million in 2005 and $9 million in 2004. The company incurred remediation costs of $14 million in 2005 and $10 million in 2004 and charged these costs against the reserve. Based on currently available information and analysis, the company believes that it is reasonably possible that costs associated with all identified sites may exceed current accruals by up to $70 million, which may be incurred over several years. This estimate of the upper end of the range of reasonably possible additional costs is much less certain than the estimates upon which accruals are currently based, and utilizes assumptions less favorable to the company among the range of reasonably possible outcomes. In estimating both its current accruals for environmental
 
 
remediation and the possible range of additional future costs, the company has assumed that it will not bear the entire cost of remediation of every site to the exclusion of other known potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other potentially responsible parties to participate has been taken into account, generally based on each party's financial condition and probable contribution on a per-site basis. No amounts have been recorded for potential recoveries from insurance carriers.
The company has not recognized a liability under Interpretation 47 for certain legal obligations, primarily special handling for the removal and disposal of encapsulated asbestos from facilities and equipment. The fair value cannot be reasonably estimated because the settlement dates are unknown.
GUARANTEES
Weyerhaeuser Company has guaranteed approximately $43 million of debt that expires in 2006, but is subject to an annual extension. In addition, Weyerhaeuser Company sold its interest in a timberlands lease in the fourth quarter of 2005 and guaranteed the performance of the buyer/lessee. The lease expires in 2023 and total future lease payments are approximately $32 million. Weyerhaeuser Company recorded a $3 million liability as of the closing date of the sale.
As of December 25, 2005, the Real Estate and Related Assets segment has guaranteed approximately $22 million of debt of unconsolidated entities. The debt guarantees expire as follows: $11 million in 2007 and $11 million in 2009.
WARRANTIES
WRECO provides warranties on homes that vary depending on state and local laws. The reserves for these warranties are determined by applying the provisions of Statement 5. The liability was approximately $16 million and $14 million at December 25, 2005, and December 26, 2004, respectively.
PURCHASE OBLIGATIONS
Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the company and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude arrangements that the company can cancel without penalty. As of December 25, 2005, Weyerhaeuser's future commitments under non-cancelable purchase obligations were as follows: $437 million in 2006, $147 million in 2007, $89 million in 2008, $72 million in 2009, $58 million in 2010, and $581 million thereafter.
OPERATING LEASES
The company leases various equipment, office and wholesale space, and model homes under operating leases. The equipment leases cover items including aircraft, vessels, rail and logging equipment, lift trucks, automobiles and office equipment. The company recognized rent expense of approximately $177 million, $181 million and $179 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The company's future commitments under operating leases are as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 16. OTHER OPERATING COSTS, NET
Other operating costs, net, is an aggregation of both recurring and occasional income and expense items and, as a result, can fluctuate from year to year. Weyerhaeuser's other operating costs, net, include the following (income) and expenses:
 
In the fourth quarter of 2005, Weyerhaeuser recognized income of $43 million for the cumulative effect of a change to begin capitalizing Weyerhaeuser interest on qualifying assets of Real Estate and Related Assets. Following are the components of the adjustment:
 
The amount of Weyerhaeuser interest capitalized to qualifying assets of Real Estate and Related Assets is dependent on the amount of qualifying real estate assets and the level of debt held by Real Estate and Related Assets. The amount of Weyerhaeuser interest that will be included in Weyerhaeuser's cost of products sold in future periods is dependent on the timing and volume of sales of qualifying real estate. Excluding the cumulative adjustment for periods prior to 2005, the net effect of the change would have been an increase in consolidated net earnings of approximately $2 million to $4 million per quarter in 2005.
Included in (gain) loss on disposition of assets for 2004 is a net pretax gain of $43 million recognized in connection with the sale of operating facilities. This includes a pretax gain of $33 million that was recognized in the first quarter on the sale of an oriented strand board (OSB) mill in Slave Lake, Alberta.
Asset impairment charges other than for closures for 2003 includes a pretax impairment charge of $16 million recognized in the second quarter of 2003 in connection with a facility sale that closed in 2003.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, Weyerhaeuser donated certain technology to a university. A pretax charge of $23 million, representing the net carrying value of the donated technology, was recognized in 2004.
In 1999, American Cemwood Corporation (Cemwood), a subsidiary of MacMillan Bloedel Limited, which was acquired by the company in 1999, settled a class action suit involving claims alleging the failure of its cement fiber roofing products. The settlement provided an opportunity for the company to recover a portion of the settlement amount, depending on the outcome of a lawsuit filed by the class against Cemwood's insurance companies. As a result of
 
 
settlements with the insurance companies, the company recognized a net pretax benefit of $25 million in the second quarter of 2003 and $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. The company has an unresolved claim outstanding against a reinsurer.
Foreign exchange gains and losses result from changes in exchange rates, primarily related to Weyerhaeuser's Canadian and New Zealand operations.
NOTE 17. CHARGES FOR INTEGRATION AND RESTRUCTURING
As Weyerhaeuser has acquired businesses and consolidated them into its existing operations, Weyerhaeuser has incurred charges associated with the transition and integration of those activities. Charges recognized from 2003 to 2005 for integration and restructuring included costs associated with the integration of Willamette and Weyerhaeuser's overall cost-reduction efforts.
In connection with the acquisition of Willamette in 2002, Weyerhaeuser entered into change-in-control agreements with several key Willamette employees. Under these agreements, Weyerhaeuser made payments of approximately $113 million through January 2004. Approximately $23 million of these payments represented severance and other benefits paid to terminated Willamette employees. These costs were included in the total purchase price of the Willamette acquisition. Approximately $48 million represented other payments to terminated Willamette employees, primarily under consulting and noncompete agreements that extended through the third quarter of 2004. Approximately $42 million represented payments to retained Willamette employees under retention and incentive agreements that extended through the first quarter of 2004 and noncompete agreements that extended through the third quarter of 2005. Costs associated with services were recognized over the periods benefited.
Costs incurred consist of the following:
 
As of December 25, 2005, Weyerhaeuser accrued liabilities include approximately $15 million of severance accruals related to integration and restructuring charges recognized from 2003 through 2005. These accruals are associated with approximately 350 employee terminations that have not yet occurred.
NOTE 18. CHARGES FOR CLOSURE OF FACILITIES
Facilities that do not represent a long-term strategic fit for the company, or that cannot achieve top-quartile performance without significant capital investments, are assessed for closure or sale. Changing market conditions, increasing productivity at many of the company's operating facilities and increased scale as a result of recent acquisitions have provided the company with opportunities to rationalize its production capacity while retaining its ability to fulfill customer needs.
Weyerhaeuser closed a number of facilities during 2005, 2004 and 2003. Closures charges recognized in 2005 include costs related to the closures of a pulp and paper facility, a specialty pulp mill, a fine paper machine, a containerboard machine, a large-log sawmill, two hardwood facilities, an I-joist facility, a veneer and plywood facility, seven corrugated converting plants and a bag plant. The 2004 charges were primarily recognized in connection with the closure of one wood products facility and two packaging plants. The 2004 pension charges were recognized in connection with the final settlement of three pension plans associated with facility closures. During 2004, approximately $12 million of estimated charges for severance and other costs associated with several closures that occurred from 2001 through 2003 were reversed as the related closure activities had been finalized. During 2003,
 
 
Weyerhaeuser recognized closure costs in connection with the announced closures of eight wood products facilities, two fine paper machines, one containerboard mill and one packaging plant.
Activities associated with these closures are expected to continue through the end of 2006, but Weyerhaeuser does not expect to incur any additional material charges related to these closures. Charges for closure of facilities include:
 
Changes in accrued termination benefits related to facility closures during the year ended December 25, 2005, were as follows:
 
NOTE 19. SIGNIFICANT SALES OF NONSTRATEGIC TIMBERLANDS
During 2004 and 2003, the company closed the following significant sales of nonstrategic timberlands:
 
The company has consolidated the assets and liabilities of the buyer-sponsored special purpose entities and the monetization special purpose entities involved in these transactions (collectively "the SPEs"). See Note 3: Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.
In addition to the amounts presented above, the company recognized gains of $23 million in the second quarter of 2003 when a contingency lapsed on a portion of a timberland sale that closed in December 2002, and $57 million in the second quarter of 2005 when a re-evaluation of the consolidation of the SPEs under Interpretation 46R was completed.
 
 
NOTE 20. SHAREHOLDERS' INTEREST
Preferred and Preference Shares
    The company is authorized to issue:
 
 
The preferred and preference shares may be issued in one or more series with varying rights and preferences including dividend rates, redemption rights, conversion terms, sinking fund provisions, values in liquidation and voting rights. When issued, the outstanding preferred and preference shares rank senior to outstanding common shares as to dividends and assets available on liquidation.
Common Shares    
 
A reconciliation of common share activity for the three years ended December 25, 2005, is as follows:
 
Included in the new shares issued in 2004 are 16,675,000 shares of common stock issued by the company on May 4, 2004. The company received net proceeds from the offering, after deduction of the underwriting discount and other transaction costs, of $954 million.
In October 2005, the company announced a stock repurchase program under which it is authorized to repurchase up to 18 million shares of common stock. As of December 25, 2005, the company had repurchased approximately 174,000 shares of common stock under the program.
Exchangeable Shares    
 Weyerhaeuser Limited issued 13,565,802 exchangeable shares to common shareholders of MacMillan Bloedel in 1999 as part of the consideration paid to acquire MacMillan Bloedel. No additional shares have been issued. These exchangeable shares are, as nearly as practicable, the economic equivalent of the company's common shares; i.e., they have the following rights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of exchangeable share activity for the three years ended December 25, 2005, is as follows:
 
Cumulative Other Comprehensive Income    
 The company's cumulative other comprehensive income includes the following:
 
NOTE 21. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS
The company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan) was approved at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Plan provides for the grant of options to purchase the company's common stock at its market price on the date of grant by certain key officers and other employees of the company and its subsidiaries who are selected from time to time by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may grant to Plan participants restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and other equity compensation on terms and conditions set by the Compensation Committee. In each case, equity granted to participants in the Plan must be at market price on the date of grant. As of the effective date of the Plan, shares available for grant under prior plans of the company were canceled. No more than 17 million shares may be issued under the Plan, and participants are eligible to receive in any one calendar year options or stock appreciation rights relating to a maximum of 500,000 shares, or restricted stock, performance shares or other equity grants aggregating a maximum of 200,000 shares. The aggregate number of shares that may be issued as grants other than options or stock appreciation rights may not exceed 20 percent of the authorized number of shares. If all options outstanding at December 25, 2005, including some options that were previously granted under an earlier plan, and all remaining options that could be granted under the Plan were exercised, the company's common shares would increase by approximately 29 million shares. The term of options granted under the Plan may not exceed 10 years from the grant date. Vesting periods may be set by the Compensation Committee at the time of grant, but options outstanding under the Plan and prior plans are 25 percent vested after one year, 50 percent after two years, 75 percent after three years, and 100 percent after four years.
Stock appreciation rights were issued to former MacMillan Bloedel employees in connection with the company's acquisition of MacMillan Bloedel in 1999. In addition, stock appreciation rights are granted to certain international employees from time to time. As of December 25, 2005, 970,048 stock appreciation rights were outstanding, with strike prices ranging from $39.41 per right to $65.69 per right. These stock appreciation rights are included in the stock option information presented below.
On April 13, 2004, the company instituted a program to purchase shares from a limited number of employees who had been limited in their ability to sell shares issuable upon exercise of their stock options as a result of trading restrictions the company imposed on such employees. Under this program, the option holders were permitted to effect a cashless exercise of their stock options followed by an immediate sale to the company of the common shares issued on such cashless exercise, so that there would be no market transaction in connection with such exercises. Only those options
 
 
granted to 21 participating employees on or prior to April 19, 1999, (representing options to purchase 578,486 common shares) were eligible to be exercised under the program. The program resulted in variable accounting treatment for the stock options included in the program through the program's expiration on April 1, 2005.
The company accounts for all options under APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations. A reconciliation in Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share had the company applied the fair-value recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based compensation.
The company allows certain employees to defer all or a portion of their bonus into company share equivalents, with a 15 percent premium applied if payment is delayed for at least five years. The deferred account increases or decreases based on the performance of the company's stock plus dividends.
The compensation expense recognized for all of the incentive plans was $11 million in 2005, $9 million in 2004 and $7 million in 2003.
Changes in the number of options outstanding are summarized as follows:
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants:
 
 
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 25, 2005 (shares in thousands):
 
NOTE 22. ACQUISITION
APM
    In the fourth quarter of 2004, the company acquired a 67 percent interest in Aracruz Produtos de Madeira S.A. (APM) for $17 million in cash. APM operates a sawmill in Brazil that produces high-value eucalyptus lumber and related appearance wood products. The sawmill has an annual capacity of 23 million board feet.
NOTE 23. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Discontinued operations presented in the consolidated statement of earnings includes the following:
 
B.C. Coastal Sale
In May 2005, the company sold its B.C. Coastal operations to Coastal Acquisition Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Brascan Corporation of Toronto, Canada. The sale included 635,000 acres (258,000 hectares) of private timberlands and the annual harvesting rights to 3.6 million cubic meters of timber subject to public timber leases. The sale also included five softwood sawmills, with a combined annual production capacity of 690 million board feet, and two remanufacturing facilities. Prior to the sale, the company's B.C. Coastal operations were included in both the Timberlands and Wood Products segments.
The company recognized a gain on the sale of $110 million, including a tax benefit of $46 million, in the second quarter of 2005 and recognized a pension curtailment charge of $1 million in the third quarter of 2005. The net pretax gain of $63 million is included in contribution to earnings of the Corporate and Other segment in 2005.
The income tax benefit recognized upon the sale of the B.C. Coastal operations includes a deferred tax benefit of $185 million resulting from the rollout of temporary differences on the assets sold and a current tax expense of $139 million on the taxable gain. Current taxes reflect the benefit of favorable capital gains treatment applicable to the sale of timberlands in Canada.
 
 
Sale of French Composites Operations
In December 2005, the company sold its French composite panels operations to Financiera Maderera S.A. (FINSA). The sale included two composite panel manufacturing operations with a combined annual capacity of approximately 330 million square feet. Prior to the sale, the company's French composite panels operations were included in the Corporate and Other segment.
The company recognized a net gain on the sale of $34 million, including a related tax expense of $23 million, in the fourth quarter of 2005. The pretax gain of $57 million is included in contribution to earnings of the Corporate and Other segment in 2005.
Sale of North American Composites Operations
In July 2006, the company sold its North American Composite operations, which included six composite mills in the United States, to Flakeboard America Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Flakeboard Company Ltd. In the third quarter of 2006, the company received net proceeds from the sale of $187 million.
Sale of Irish Composites Operations
In November 2006, the company sold its Clonmel, Ireland composites operation to Coillte Teoranta, an Irish company. The company received cash proceeds from the sale of 66 million, or approximately US$86 million, in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Carrying Value of the Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations
The following table summarizes the U.S. dollar carrying values of the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. Carrying values as of December 26, 2004 include all discontinued operations. Carrying values as of December 25, 2005 include both the North American and Irish composite panels operations. No liabilities of the North American composite panels operations were included in the sale.
 
NOTE 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On February 10, 2006, Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Company acquired Maracay Homes Arizona I, LLC, a privately-held homebuilder located in Phoenix, Arizona.
Maracay Acquisition
On April 26, 2006, the company announced that it was considering alternatives for its fine paper business that ranged from continuing to hold and operate the assets to a possible sale or other disposition. Based on an evaluation of the value of assets and liabilities within the fine paper reporting unit, the company believed that the implied net value of fine paper goodwill was zero. The company recognized an estimated charge of $746 million in the first quarter of 2006 and recognized an additional $3 million charge in the second quarter of 2006 for the impairment of the goodwill associated with the fine paper reporting unit.
Impairment of Fine Paper Goodwill
In July 2006, the Canadian and U.S. governments announced a final settlement to the long-standing softwood lumber dispute. The provisions of the settlement included repayment of approximately 81 percent of the deposits, imposition of export measures in Canada, and measures to address long-term policy reform. On September 19, 2006, the Canadian Parliament voted 172-116 on a motion that empowered it to collect the export taxes provided for in the settlement. Parliament also introduced legislation to bring the settlement into force.
Refund of Countervailing / Antidumping Duties
On October 12, 2006, Canada and the United States announced amendments that allowed the settlement to be implemented as of this date. The amendments included a process that allowed the United States to proceed with the revocation of CVD and AD orders.
On October 13, 2006, the U.S. Court of International Trade ruled that NAFTA panel decisions have retroactive effect.
On October 30, 2006, the company received $344 million, before taxes, as a refund of duties paid, including interest, which was recognized as income in the fourth quarter of 2006. The refund represents approximately 81 percent of the combined total of deposits paid by the company's Canadian subsidiaries and interest accrued on such deposits.
NOTE 25. BUSINESS SEGMENTS
The company is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate development and construction. The company's business segments are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
As disclosed in Note 23: Discontinued Operations, the company sold its B.C. Coastal operations in the second quarter of 2005 and sold its French composites operations in the fourth quarter of 2005. The segment data below includes the activities of the B.C. Coastal operations in the Timberlands and Wood Products segments. The activities of the French composites operations are included in the Corporate and Other segment. The pretax gains of $63 million on the B.C. Coastal sale and $57 million on the French composites sale are both included in the Corporate and Other segment in 2005.
Refer to Note 23: Discontinued Operations and Note 28: Recast Financial Information for additional information.
The timber-based businesses involve a high degree of integration among timber operations; building materials conversion facilities; and pulp, paper, containerboard and liquid packaging board primary manufacturing and secondary conversion facilities. This integration includes extensive transfers of raw materials, semi-finished materials and end products between and among these groups. The company's accounting policies for segments are the same as those described in Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
Management evaluates segment performance based on the contributions to earnings of the respective segments. Accounting for segment profitability in integrated manufacturing sites involves allocation of joint conversion and common facility costs based upon the extent of usage by the respective product lines at that facility. Transfer of products between segments is accounted for at current market values.
 
 
An analysis and reconciliation of the company's business segment information to the respective information in the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 26. GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS
The company attributes sales to and revenues from unaffiliated customers in different geographical areas on the basis of the location of the customer.
Export sales from the United States consist principally of pulp, liquid packaging board, logs, lumber and wood chips to Japan; containerboard, pulp, lumber and recycling material to other Pacific Rim countries; and pulp and hardwood lumber to Europe.
Long-lived assets consist of goodwill, timber and timberlands and property and equipment used in the generation of revenues in the different geographical areas.
Selected information related to the company's operations by geographical area is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 27. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 
Earnings per share for the full year 2005 and 2004 do not equal the sum of the respective earnings per share for the four quarters of 2005 and 2004 in all instances because of common share activity during the respective years.
NOTE 28. RECAST FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Certain financial information and footnotes included in this Form 8-K have been recast from the financial information and footnotes included in the company's Form 10-K dated February 22, 2006, for the year ended December 25, 2005, due to the following:
 
 
 
 


