FILE:WY/WY-8K-20071031083135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 31, 2007, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. Copies of the press release and the exhibits thereto are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 31, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
Weyerhaeuser Reports 3rd Quarter Net Earnings of $101 Million, or 47 Cents per Diluted Share, on Sales of $4.1 Billion
(Oct. 31, 2007)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported net earnings of $101 million for the third quarter of 2007, or 47 cents per diluted share, on sales of $4.1 billion.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Third quarter 2007 earnings include the following after-tax items:
Excluding these items, the company earned $118 million, or 55 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2007.
Third quarter 2006 results have been recast to reflect the fine paper business and related assets included in the Domtar transaction as discontinued operations and to apply the new accounting pronouncement to expense planned major maintenance costs as incurred.
For third quarter 2006, Weyerhaeuser net earnings were $224 million, or 91 cents per diluted share, on net sales of $4.6 billion. Third quarter 2006 earnings include the following after-tax items:
Excluding these items, the company earned $236 million, or 95 cents per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006.
 
SUMMARY OF THIRD QUARTER BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
"An already weak wood products market deteriorated further during the third quarter," said Steven R. Rogel, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We were adjusting our production to meet our reduced order level, but we took additional action in the quarter as demand and prices slid. We will continually adjust our operating posture as necessary to balance production with demand.
"Meanwhile, the work we've done to operate more efficiently resulted in improved mill productivity in our Cellulose Fibers and Containerboard Packaging businesses. We expect improved price realizations in both businesses in the fourth quarter."
SUMMARY OF THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR THIRD QUARTER
(Contributions to Pre-Tax Earnings)
TIMBERLANDS
Export and domestic log prices declined in the West while log prices in the South were relatively unchanged. Total fee harvest declined slightly, but third party log sales volumes increased as fewer logs were consumed by company mills. Higher sales of non-strategic timberlands in the third quarter offset the effect of declining log prices.
3Q 2007 Performance 
 
Weyerhaeuser expects Timberlands earnings to be lower in the fourth quarter compared with third quarter due to expectations that:
4Q 2007 Outlook 
WOOD PRODUCTS
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segment's net loss increased $36 million from the second quarter, reflecting continued difficult market conditions.
3Q 2007 Performance 
Third quarter 2007 includes:
Second quarter 2007 includes:
Declining housing starts continued to affect segment results. Average realized prices for plywood and oriented strand board increased slightly from the second quarter, but were offset by decreased lumber prices. Sales volumes declined for each of the segment's building products. The strengthening Canadian dollar unfavorably affected the earnings contribution from products manufactured in Canada.
The company expects the segment's operating loss to increase in fourth quarter compared with the third quarter due to the traditional seasonal slowdown and continuing pressures on volumes and prices. On Oct. 18, the company announced indefinite curtailments at three mills and expects to continue actively adjusting operating posture to balance production with demand.
4Q 2007 Outlook 
CELLULOSE FIBERS
Market conditions continued to improve and pulp prices increased. Pulp shipment volumes declined in the third quarter, primarily due to changes in the brokerage relationship associated with the transition of mills to Domtar. Mill productivity improved while costs declined due to less downtime for annual maintenance.
3Q 2007 Performance 
Weyerhaeuser expects favorable market conditions to continue, resulting in slightly higher earnings from the segment in fourth quarter.
4Q 2007 Outlook 
CONTAINERBOARD, PACKAGING AND RECYCLING
 
3Q 2007 Performance
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segment's earnings increased $13 million from second quarter.
Third quarter 2007 includes:
Second quarter 2007 included:
Productivity improved and annual scheduled maintenance downtime decreased at the containerboard mills. OCC costs increased. Energy costs were seasonally lower. Average packaging price realizations decreased mainly due to product mix. Converting cost reductions partially offset decreased packaging price realizations and seasonally lower shipments.
 Weyerhaeuser expects fourth quarter earnings for the segment to be comparable to third quarter due to expectations that:
4Q 2007 Outlook
REAL ESTATE AND RELATED ASSETS
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segment's earnings increased $19 million from second quarter.
3Q 2007 Performance 
Third quarter 2007 includes:
Second quarter 2007 includes:
Single-family home closings increased compared with the second quarter. Average closing prices continued to decline. Margins increased due to mix. The backlog of homes sold, but not closed, declined to approximately four and one-half months.
 Weyerhaeuser expects earnings from single-family home closings to be significantly lower than the third quarter due to declining market conditions. Land sales not yet under contract that may close in fourth quarter could offset some of this decline.
4Q 2007 Outlook
ABOUT WEYERHAEUSER
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2006, sales were $21.9 billion. It has offices or operations in 18 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at .
http://www.weyerhaeuser.com
 
EARNINGS CALL INFORMATION
Weyerhaeuser will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on Oct. 31 to discuss third quarter results.
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-800-218-4007 at least 15 minutes prior to the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-303-262-2075. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-405-2236 (access code  11098530#) from within North America and at 1-303-590-3000 (access code  11098530#) from outside North America.
The call is being webcast through Weyerhaeuser's Internet site at by clicking on the "Q3 2007 Earnings Conference Call" link.
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomson's individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomson's password-protected site, StreetEvents ().
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
http://www.streetevents.com
This news release contains statements concerning the company's future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects," "may," "will," "believes," "should," "approximately," anticipates," "estimates," and "plans," and the negative or other variations of those terms or comparable terminology or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. In particular, some of these forward-looking statements deal with expectations for fourth quarter 2007 regarding the company's markets, earnings and performance of the company's business segments, price realizations, demand, sales volumes and pricing for the company's products, land sales, product mix, OCC and fiber costs, higher seasonal energy costs, operating postures and scheduled annual maintenance downtime, and related matters. The accuracy of such statements is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to:
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT
 
The company is also a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan, and by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and the Canadian dollar, and restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports. These and other factors could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements and, accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur, or if any of them occurs, what effect they will have on the company's results of operations or financial condition. The company expressly declines any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date of this news release.

 
Exhibit 99.2
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
     
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
(in millions)
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
Net sales and revenues (in millions):
(1)(2)
 
Contribution (charge) to pre-tax earnings:                   (in millions)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited) FOOTNOTES TO CONTRIBUTION (CHARGE) TO PRE-TAX EARNINGS (in millions)
 
     The above closure charges include costs incurred within the company's discontinued operations.
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY STATISTICAL INFORMATION (unaudited)
Third party sales volumes:
(1) (2)
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in millions)
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SELECTED INFORMATION (unaudited)                    (in millions)


