FILE:WY/WY-8K-20071218142716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents
ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
     On December 12, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan, which is a plan in which the Company's executive officers participate. The amendments were intended to bring the Deferred Compensation Plan into compliance with the requirements of regulations implementing the American Jobs Creation Act and Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The amended and restated Deferred Compensation Plan is attached as an exhibit.
     The amounts deferred by the Company's named executive officers were previously disclosed in the Company's proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders held in April 2007.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)
Exhibits
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 18, 2007

 
Exhibit 10.1
Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above elections are inapplicable in the case of the Participant's death, in which case the provisions of Paragraph 9(f) shall apply. The above elections are inapplicable in the case the Participant's 80th birthday occurs prior to the distribution of all amounts in his or her accounts, in which case all such amounts shall be paid in a lump sum on or before March 15 of the calendar year following his or her 80th birthday, with adjustments as necessary to the number of annual installments payments. The amount of each installment
 
payment shall be computed by multiplying a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of years remaining in the payment period, by the remaining installments plus accrued interest (e.g., 1/10th is paid in the first year of a 10-year payment period; 1/9th of the remaining balance in the second year; 1/8th of the remaining balance in the third year, etc., over the 10 years).
 
 
irrevocably elect to establish and fix a firm price for some or all Stock Equivalents currently credited to such portion of his or her account to the extent such Stock Equivalents have satisfied the minimum five-year deferral period. The firm price shall then be the price per share of the common stock of the Company as of any Trading Day concurrent with the delivery of such election to the Plan's recordkeeper if delivered before the close of the New York Stock Exchange, or the next following Trading Day if delivered after the closing of the New York Stock Exchange. Effective for elections on and after January 1, 2007, interest at the rate described in Paragraph 7(b) shall thereafter be earned and compounded monthly (for elections between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2006, the monthly compounding begins from the date the last dividend equivalent was credited under Paragraph 7(c)(iv)). An election under this Paragraph shall not accelerate actual payment of the Stock Equivalent Participant's account.
 
A payment due to an Unforeseeable Emergency shall not affect any deferral election previously made by the Participant.
 
 
Minors Act or similar statute. Any such payment shall be a payment for the account of the Participant or his or her beneficiary, as applicable, and fully discharge any liability of the Company or the Plan with respect to such payment.
 
 
If a Claimant submits a claim in accordance with the procedure described above and does not hear from the Committee within 90 days, the Claimant may consider the claim denied.
The Claimant (or his or her authorized representative) will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant (within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.  2560.503-1(m)(8)) to his or her claim.
 
records and other information that the Claimant (or his or her authorized representative) submitted, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered by the Committee in its initial denial of the claim.
If a claim is partially or completely denied on appeal, the written notice of claim denial shall include the following:
If a Claimant files an appeal in accordance with the procedure described above and does not hear from the Committee within 60 days, the Claimant may consider the appeal denied.
 
eligibility for (and the amount of) benefits under the Plan and to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan.
 
 
to the choice or conflicts of law provisions thereof. If the Company or any Participant or beneficiary initiates litigation related to the Plan, the venue for such action will be King County, Washington.
 
Weyerhaeuser Company Annual Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2006)
WRECO Management Long-Term Incentive Plan
WRECO Management Short-Term Incentive Plan
Weyerhaeuser Company Residential Wood Products Sales Incentive Plan (effective January 1, 2006)
Weyerhaeuser Company Management Incentive Plan (terminated as of December 31, 2005)
WBM Area/General Managers' Incentive Plan (terminated as of December 31, 2005)


