FILE:WY/WY-8K-20080507122350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
     
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On May 5, 2008, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release stating the following:
Weyerhaeuser-IP Transaction Clears DOJ Review
(May 5, 2008)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today announced the early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino review process of the company's sale of its Containerboard Packaging and Recycling business to International Paper (NYSE: IP) for $6 billion in cash.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Weyerhaeuser said the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination on May 2, 2008, following the conclusion of the U.S. Department of Justice's review of the sale.
"We are very pleased with this decision by the Department of Justice," said Daniel S. Fulton, president and chief executive officer. "This was an essential condition to the transaction and is a major step towards closing the transaction. Both companies remain focused on finalizing the transaction in the third quarter."
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2007, sales were $16.3 billion. It has offices or operations in 13 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction, development and related activities. Additional information about Weyerhaeuser's businesses, products and practices is available at http://.
www.weyerhaeuser.com
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 6, 2008


