FILE:WY/WY-8K-20090505082137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT 99.1
EXHIBIT 99.2
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On May 5, 2009, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009.  Copies of the press release and the exhibits thereto are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Weyerhaeuser Reports 1st Quarter Loss
(May 5, 2009)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported a net loss of $264 million for the first quarter, or $1.25 per share, on net sales of $1.3 billion.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
This compares with a net loss of $148 million, or $0.70 per share, on net sales from continuing operations of $2.0 billion for the same period last year.
SIGNIFICANT FIRST QUARTER 2009 AFTER-TAX ITEMS
Excluding these items, the company reported a net loss of $144 million, or $0.68 per share, in the first quarter of 2009.
SIGNIFICANT FIRST QUARTER 2008 AFTER-TAX ITEMS
 
Excluding these items, the companys net loss was $51 million, or $0.24 per share, in the first quarter of 2008.
The recession hit us hard and affected the results we announced this morning, said Dan Fulton, president and chief executive officer. Declining revenues during the quarter reflect reduced volume and depressed prices across all of our product lines. In response, weve curtailed production capacity and reduced timber harvest levels. While we achieved our $375 million in previously announced cost reductions ahead of schedule, our current performance is unacceptable. Our priority is to put into place a competitive cost structure that will allow our business portfolio to achieve top quartile results regardless of economic conditions.
SUMMARY OF FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR FIRST QUARTER
(Contributions to Pre-Tax Earnings)
TIMBERLANDS
Fee harvest declined, primarily due to market conditions. Log prices were lower in both export and domestic markets. This was partially offset by lower operating costs, primarily for fuel and silviculture activities. Segment earnings include losses related to international operations of $7 million in the first quarter and $10 million in the fourth quarter.
1Q 2009 Performance 
Weyerhaeuser expects second quarter 2009 earnings from the segment to be comparable to first quarter, as challenging market conditions persist.
2Q 2009 Outlook 
WOOD PRODUCTS
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments results improved by $23 million, resulting in a lower loss in the first quarter.
1
Q 200
9
 
Performance 
Cost control measures and facility closures, combined with lower log costs, more than offset reduced sales volumes for all product lines and lower lumber and oriented strand board prices.
Weyerhaeuser expects a smaller operating loss for the segment in second quarter due to cost reductions resulting from first quarter facility closures and other cost control measures. The company anticipates lower raw material costs and slightly higher sales volumes.
2
Q 2009
Outlook 
CELLULOSE FIBERS
Excluding a fourth quarter charge of $94 million for the impairment of goodwill, the segments earnings declined $34 million in the first quarter.
1
Q 200
9
 
Performance
First quarter earnings from operations decreased, primarily due to a significant decline in pulp price realizations and lower capacity utilization as the company slowed production to match declining demand for its products. This was partially offset by lower fiber, freight and maintenance costs.
 
 
Expenses associated with a planned major boiler maintenance project, other annual maintenance outages and lower pulp prices are expected to result in a second quarter loss.
2
Q 2009 Outlook
REAL ESTATE
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments loss increased $14 million in first quarter.
1
Q 200
9
Performance
Homebuilding operations closed 429 units, a 43 percent decrease from fourth quarter, reflecting a seasonal decline and continued weak market conditions. The average price of home sales closed was slightly lower than the previous quarter, primarily due to mix.
Despite extremely difficult housing market conditions, Weyerhaeuser expects second quarter home sale closings to increase slightly from first quarter levels, but at lower average sales prices.  Excluding impairments and restructuring charges, the segments loss from homebuilding operations is expected to approximate the first quarter.
2Q 2009 Outlook
ABOUT WEYERHAEUSER
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the worlds largest forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2008, sales were $8 billion. It has offices or operations in 10 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction and development. Additional information about Weyerhaeusers businesses, products and practices is available at .
http://www.wy.com
EARNINGS CALL INFORMATION
Weyerhaeuser will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on May 5 to discuss first quarter results.
 
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-800-240-4186 at least 15 minutes prior to the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-303-262-2053. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-405-2236 (access code  11130409#) from within North America and at 1-303-590-3000 (access code  11130409#) from outside North America.
 
The call is being webcast through Weyerhaeusers Internet site at by clicking on the Q1 2009 Earnings Conference Call link.
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
 
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomsons individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomsons password-protected site, StreetEvents ().
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
http://www.streetevents.com
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains statements concerning the companys future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on various assumptions and may not be accurate because of risks and uncertainties surrounding these assumptions.  Factors listed below, as well as other factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from these forward-looking statements.  There is no guarantee that any of the events anticipated by these forward-looking statements will occur.  If any of the events occur, there is no guarantee what effect they will have on company operations or financial condition.  The company will not update these forward-looking statements after the date of this news release.
Some forward-looking statements discuss the companys plans, strategies and intentions.  They use words such as expects, may, will, believes, should, approximately, anticipates, estimates, and plans.  In addition, these words may use the positive or negative or other variations of those terms.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding the companys expectations during the second quarter of 2009, including the companys markets, the effect of facility closures and cost control measures in the wood products segment, fee timber harvests and log prices, demand and pricing for our wood products, decreases in raw material costs for our wood products segment, increased expenses for annual planned maintenance in the Cellulose Fiber segment, demand and prices for pulp, home sale closings and prices, earnings and performance of our business segments, capital expenditures and the timing of debt repayments.
 
Major risks, uncertainties and assumptions that affect the companys businesses and may cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limitedto:
 
 
 
The company also is a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan and China.  It also is affected by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the euro and the Canadian dollar. Restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports also may affect the company.
 
 

(in millions)
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
1
 
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
Excludes pension and post retirement charges included in restructuring and closures
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
 
5
 
 
 
 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS - SUBJECT TO AUDIT
 
6
 


