FILE:WY/WY-8K-20090731080255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 31, 2009, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009.  Copies of the press release and the exhibits thereto are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Weyerhaeuser Reports 2nd Quarter Loss
(July 31, 2009)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported a net loss of $106 million for the second quarter, or $0.50 per share, on net sales from continuing operations of $1.4 billion.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
This compares with a net loss of $96 million, or $0.45 per share, on net sales from continuing operations of $2.2 billion for the same period last year.
SIGNIFICANT SECOND QUARTER 2009 AFTER-TAX ITEMS
Excluding these items, the company reported a net loss of $125 million, or $0.59 per share, in the second quarter of 2009.
SIGNIFICANT SECOND QUARTER 2008 AFTER-TAX ITEMS
 
 
Excluding these items, the company earned $7 million, or $0.03 per share, in the second quarter of 2008.
 
Although weve begun to experience some recovery in housing sales and starts, it is not yet clear that this improvement is driven by sustainable shifts in market fundamentals, and therefore our timberlands, wood products and real estate businesses continue to operate in an environment of uncertainty, said Dan Fulton, president and chief executive officer. We continue to reduce costs to make our businesses more competitive, and we continue to adjust our harvest and production levels to meet market demand.
SUMMARY OF SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR SECOND QUARTER
Contributions (Charges) to Pre-Tax Earnings
TIMBERLANDS
Excluding asecond quarter restructuring charge of $5 million, the segments earnings increased $31 million.
2Q 2009 Performance 
 
Second quarter earnings from operations improved due to increased sales of non-strategic lands, seasonally higher volumes, and lower operating and SG&A costs. Domestic and export log prices declined during the quarter. Losses related to international operations were $7 million, unchanged from first quarter.
Excluding the impact of non-strategic land sales,Weyerhaeuser expects third quarter earnings from the segment to be lower than second quarter due to additional harvest deferrals and lower log sales realizations.
3Q 2009 Outlook 
 
WOOD PRODUCTS
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments second quarter losses decreased $29 million.
2
Q 200
9
 
Performance 
Continued cost control measures, lower log costs and slightly improved softwood lumber prices more than offset lower engineered wood products prices.
Weyerhaeuser expects a smaller loss from operations for the segment in third quarter due to improved operating efficiencies, cost control initiatives, and modest improvements in softwood lumber and oriented strand board prices.  We will continue to take additional downtime to balance supply with demand.
3
Q 2009
Outlook 
CELLULOSE FIBERS
 
 
Second quarter results include a pre-tax gain of $107 million related to alternative fuel mixture credits.  Excluding the credit, the segments earnings declined $38 million in the second quarter.
2Q 2009 Performance 
An extensive boiler repair at Columbus, Mississippi and annual maintenance outages significantly lowered earnings in the second quarter.  Lower average price realizations for pulp and liquid packaging were partially offset by reductions in fiber, energy, chemical and freight costs.
Weyerhaeuser expects earnings from operations for third quarter to be higher than second quarter primarily due to less maintenance downtime and continued cost control.
3Q 2009 Outlook 
REAL ESTATE
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments loss improved $16 million in second quarter.
2
Q 200
9
Performance
Homebuilding operations closed 464 single-family units, an 8 percent increase from first quarter. The average price of home sales closed was slightly higher than the previous quarter, primarily due to mix.  The backlog of homes sold, but not closed, increased to slightly more than five months.
Weyerhaeuser expects a higher loss from homebuilding operations in the third quarter.  Home sale closings are expected to be comparable to second quarter levels, with a change in mix resulting in lower average sales prices.
3
Q 2009 Outlook
 
 
 
ABOUT WEYERHAEUSER
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the worlds largest forest products companies, was incorporated in 1900. In 2008, sales were $8 billion. It has offices or operations in 10 countries, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timber; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction and development. Additional information about Weyerhaeusers businesses, products and practices is available at .
http://www.wy.com
EARNINGS CALL INFORMATION
Weyerhaeuser will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on July 31 to discuss second quarter results.
 
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-800-240-2134 at least 15 minutes prior to the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-303-262-2194. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-405-2236 (access code  11125016#) from within North America and at 1-303-590-3000 (access code  11125016#) from outside North America.
 
The call is being webcast through Weyerhaeusers Internet site at by clicking on the Q2 2009 Earnings Conference Call link.
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
 
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomsons individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomsons password-protected site, StreetEvents ().
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
http://www.streetevents.com
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains statements concerning the companys future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on various assumptions and may not be accurate because of risks and uncertainties surrounding these assumptions.  Factors listed below, as well as other factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from these forward-looking statements.  There is no guarantee that any of the events anticipated by these forward-looking statements will occur.  If any of the events occur, there is no guarantee what effect they will have on company operations or financial condition.  The company will not update these forward-looking statements after the date of this news release.
Some forward-looking statements discuss the companys plans, strategies and intentions.  They use words such as expects, may, will, believes, should, approximately, anticipates, estimates, and plans.  In addition, these words may use the positive or negative or other variations of those terms.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding the companys expectations during the third quarter of 2009, including fee timber harvest levels in the Timberlands segment, sales of non-strategic timberlands, the effect of operating efficiencies and cost control measures on operating losses in the Wood Products segment, demand and pricing for our wood products, decreased expenses for annual planned maintenance and operations in the Cellulose Fiber segment, average pulp price realizations, home sale closings and prices, and earnings and performance of our business segments.
 
 
 
 
 
Major risks, uncertainties and assumptions that affect the companys businesses and may cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limitedto:
 
The company also is a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan and China.  It also is affected by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the euro and the Canadian dollar. Restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports also may affect the company.

 
 
 
1
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
(in millions)
 
 
 
2
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
 
3
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
 
FOOTNOTES TO NET CONTRIBUTION TO PRE-TAX EARNINGS
(includes costs incurred within the company's discontinued operations)
 
4
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
 
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
 
5
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(in millions)
 
6
 


