FILE:WY/WY-8K-20091030080105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Signatures
Exhibit 99.1
Exhibit 99.2
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 30, 2009, Weyerhaeuser Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.  Copies of the press release and the exhibits thereto are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  October 30, 2009

 
Weyerhaeuser Reports 3rd Quarter Results
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
(
Oct
.
 
3
0
,
 
2009
)
 
Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today reported
break-
even results
 
for third
quarter
 
2009
on net sales from continuing operations of $1.4 billion.
This compares with net earnings of $280
million,
or $1.33
per
 
share, on net sales
from continuing operations
of $
2.1
billion for the same period last year
.
SIGNIFICANT TH
IRD
QUARTER 200
9
AFTER-TAX ITEMS
Excluding these items, the company reported a net loss of
$56
million, or $0.2
6
per share, in the
 
third
quarter of 200
9
.
SIGNIFICANT
THIRD
QUARTER 2008 AFTER-TAX ITEMS
 
 
Excluding these items, the company
reported a net loss of
$
3
million
, or
$0.01
per
 
share, in the
third
quarter
of
2008.
 
"With three of our four business segments linked closely to U.S. housing starts, this recession continues to affect our financial performance," said Dan Fulton, president and chief executive officer. "Although we saw signs of improvement in the housing sector early in the third quarter, the market remains fragile. In response, we continue cutting costs and improving operations to weather the prolonged downturn and emerge a stronger company when the housing market eventually recovers."
SUMMARY OF THIRD
QUARTER FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SEGMENT RESULTS FOR
T
HIRD
QUARTER
Con
tributions
(
C
harges)
to Pre-Tax Earnings
TIMBERLANDS
3Q 2009 Performance 
Excluding
a
 
pre-tax gain
 
of
$
163
million
from the sale of 140,000 acres of non-strategic timberlands in northwestern Oregon
, the segment
s third quarter results decreased
$
10
 million.
Third quarter earnings from operations were lower primarily due to additional harvest deferrals and lower sales of non-strategic timberlands other than the transaction mentioned above. These reductions were partially offset by a sale of mineral royalties for approximately $6 million. Losses related to
international operations were $
4
million, compared to $7
 
million in second quarter.
Weyerhaeuser expects earnings to be lower than third quarter primarily due to additional harvest deferrals and seasonally higher silviculture costs. No significant non-strategic land sales are anticipated in the fourth quarter.
4Q 2009 Outlook 
WOOD PRODUCTS
3Q 2009 Performance 
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments third quarter loss decreased $
5
5
 million.
Performance improved due to higher lumber and oriented strand board sales prices, continued cost control measures and lower log costs. Volumes were down in all product lines except engineered wood products.
Weyerhaeuser expects a higher operating loss with seasonally lower volumes and reduced prices.
4
Q 2009
Outlook 
CELLULOSE FIBERS
3
Q 2009 Performance 
Third quarter 2009 included a pre-tax gain of $122 million related to alternative fuel mixture credits, compared to $107 million in the second quarter.  
Excluding
the credit, the segments
earnings improved $
5
1
million in the third quarter.
 
Fewer annual maintenance outages and completion of the boiler repair at Columbus, Mississippi early in the third quarter resulted in lower maintenance costs and improved productivity.  Higher a
verage price realizations
and volumes for pulp along with lower raw material costs contributed to the improvement
.
Excluding the effect of alternative fuel mixture credits,Weyerhaeuser expects earnings from operations for fourth quarter to be comparable to third quarter. Improved pulp price realizations are expected to be offset by increased annual maintenance and fiber costs.
4
Q 2009 Outlook 
 
REAL ESTATE
3Q 2009 Performance 
Excluding the pre-tax items noted below, the segments
third quarter
loss
decreased $5 million
.
H
omebuilding operations closed 506
 
single-family homes
, a
9
percent
in
crease from
second
quarter.
However, t
he average price of homes closed was
down 6 percent from
the previous quarter
, primarily due to mix
.  
The number of homes in the backlog increased 10 percent over the last quarter to 997 units.
4
Q 2009 Outlook
 
Weyerhaeuser expects
slightly improved results from homebuilding operations in the fourth
quarter
due to seasonally increased volumes.
CORPORATE AND
OTHER
Third quarter results for the Corporate and Other segment include the following pre-tax items:
ABOUT WEYERHAEUSER
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the worlds largest forest products companies, w
as incorporated in 1900. In 2008, sales were $8
billion. It has offices or operations
in 10 countries
, with customers worldwide. Weyerhaeuser is principally engaged in the growing and harvesting of timbe
r; the manufacture, distribution and sale of forest products; and real estate construction and development. Additional information about Weyerhaeusers businesses, products and practices is available at
http://www.wy.com
.
EARNINGS CALL INFORMATION
W
eyerhaeuser will hold a live conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific (10 a.m. Eastern) on
Oct.
30
to di
scuss
third
 
quarter results.
 
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-877-941-8632 at least 15 minutes prior to the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-480-629-9821. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-406-7325 (access code  4167921) from within North America and at 1-303-590-3030 (access code  4167921) from outside North America.
 
 
The call is being webcast through Weyerhaeusers Internet site at
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
by clicking on the Q
3
2009 Earnings Conference Call link.
 
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
, Thomsons individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomsons password-protected site, StreetEvents (
http://www.streetevents.com
).
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains statements c
oncerning the company
s future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on various assumptions and may not be accurate because of ri
s
ks and uncertainties surrounding these assumptions.  Factors listed below, as well as other factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from these forward-looking statements.  There is no guarantee that any of the events anticipated by these
 
forward-looking statements will occur.  If any of the events occur, there is no guarantee what effect they will have on company operations or financial condition.  The company will not update these forward-looking statements after the date of this news re
l
ease.
Some forward-looking statements discuss the company
s plans, strategies and intentions.  They use words such as 
expects,
may,
will,
believes,
should,
approximately,
anticipates,
estimates,& amp; #8221;
and 
plans.
  In addition, these words may u
se the positive or negative or o
ther variations of those terms.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding the company
s expectations during the
fourth
 
quarter of 2009, including
fee timber harvest levels
and operating costs
in the Timberl
ands segment, sales of non-strategic timberlands,
demand and pricing for our products
in the Wood Products segment
,
increased
expenses for annual planned maintenance
and raw material costs
in the Cellulose Fiber segment,
average
pulp
price realizations
, home sale closings and prices,
cost control measures, and
earnings and performance of our business segments
.
M
ajor risks, uncertainties and assumptions that affect the company
s businesses and may cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking s
tatements, include, but are not limited
 
to:
The company also is a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan
, China
an
d
Korea
.  It also is affected by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the euro and the Canadian dollar. Restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports also may affect the company.
 

WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
(in millions, except per-share figures)
 
1
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
(in millions)
Results of discontinued operations exclude certain general corporate overhead costs that have been allocated to and are included in contribution to earnings for the operating segments.  Discontinued operations include an allocation of net pension and postretirement income or expense.
 
2
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
NET SALES AND REVENUES:
(in millions)
    Higher and better use timberland and other non-strategic timberland are sold through Forest Products subsidiaries.
(1)
    Includes logs, plywood and hardwood lumber harvested or produced by our international operations, primarily in South America.
(2)
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
SELECTED INFORMATION (unaudited)
(in millions)
  Capital spending is for Forest Products only and excludes Real Estate.
(1)
 
3
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
NET CONTRIBUTION TO PRE-TAX EARNINGS:
(in millions)
FOOTNOTES TO NET CONTRIBUTION TO PRE-TAX EARNINGS
(includes costs incurred within the company's discontinued operations)
(in millions)
 
4
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
THIRD PARTY SALES VOLUMES:
(in millions)
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)
TOTAL PRODUCTION VOLUMES:
(in millions)
 
5
 
WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(in millions)
 
6
 


