FILE:WY/WY-8K-20101213093544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item 7.01. Regulation FD
Item  2.06. Material Impairments
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT 99.1
EXHIBIT 99.2
ITEM 7.01.    REGULATION FD
On December 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release containing the Board of Director's guidance regarding the Company's 2011 dividends. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
On December 13, 2010, Dan Fulton, President and Chief Executive Officer and Patty Bedient, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Weyerhaeuser Company participated in a conference call to discuss the Board's guidance. A copy of the presentation slides are furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. These exhibits are available on the Company's website. A recording of the call has been archived and the replay also is available on the Company's website.
ITEM 2.06.    MATERIAL IMPAIRMENTS
On December 9, 2010, the company's Board of Directors approved a series of actions as a result of a review of Wood Products system capacity. Those actions include a determination that it is unlikely to reopen certain facilities including the Deerwood, MN Timberstrand mill, the Pine Hill, AL sawmill, and the Wawa, Ontario oriented strand board mill. Management is evaluating other options for those facilities, including sale. The company is in the process of completing its accounting analysis and anticipates that total impairments and other asset-related charges that result from the Wood Products decisions will be approximately $95 million before taxes. The company expects that none of the charges will result in future cash expenditures.
The company is completing its quarterly evaluation of real estate and related assets and anticipates recording an impairment charge of approximately $15 million before taxes. The company expects that none of the charges will result in future cash expenditures.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1  Press release issued December 13, 2010
Exhibit 99.2  Slides
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 13, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release
For more information contact:
Bruce Amundson (253) 924-3047
Media 
 Kathryn McAuley (253) 924-2058
Analysts
Weyerhaeuser provides dividend guidance for 2011
 
(Dec. 13, 2010)  Weyerhaeuser Company (NYSE: WY) today announced the dividend guidance its board of directors is providing for 2011.
FEDERAL WAY, Wash.
Weyerhaeuser anticipates paying a quarterly dividend of 15 cents per share, or 60 cents per share on an annualized basis, with the first dividend payment expected to occur in March 2011. The board will determine and declare the actual dividend on a quarterly basis.
"This action establishes a dividend that is attractive to shareholders  one that is sustainable and that we expect to grow over time," said Dan Fulton, president and chief executive officer.
"We do not anticipate significant improvement in the housing market in 2011," Fulton said. "While there is significant near term uncertainty, the longer-term outlook remains positive as we expect improved macroeconomic conditions and housing starts to return to trend levels."
The company is targeting a dividend payout ratio of 75 percent of Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) over the cycle. However, given the near-term outlook, the company's 2011 dividend payout may be significantly all of its FAD for the year.
As previously announced, Weyerhaeuser intends to make the REIT election when it files its 2010 tax return, making the effective date Jan. 1, 2010.
The company also announced it expects to incur impairment charges of $95 million as a result of the ongoing review of its Wood Products system capacity, and $15 million on certain real estate assets. Weyerhaeuser will file a current report on Form 8K with the Securities and Exchange Commission today with additional details regarding the impairments.
Investor Conference Call
Weyerhaeuser will hold a live conference call at 9 a.m. Eastern (6 a.m. Pacific) on Dec. 13, 2010 to discuss today's announcement.
To access the conference call from within North America, dial 1-866-518-4547 at least 15 minutes prior to the call. Those calling from outside North America should dial 1-706-643-9225. The access code for the conference call is 29140156. Replays will be available for one week at 1-800-642-1687 from within North America and at 1-706-645-9291 from outside North America. The access code for the replays is 29140156.
The call will also be webcast through Weyerhaeuser's Internet site at and is accessible by selecting the "Dec. 13 Conference Call" link.
http://investor.weyerhaeuser.com
The webcast is available through the Thomson StreetEvents Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call at , Thomson's individual investor portal, powered by StreetEvents. Institutional investors can access the call via Thomson's password-protected site, StreetEvents ).
http://www.fulldisclosure.com
(http://www.streetevents.com
About Weyerhaeuser
Weyerhaeuser Company, one of the world's largest forest products companies, began operations in 1900. We grow and harvest trees, build homes and make a range of forest products essential to everyday lives. We manage our timberland on a sustainable basis in compliance with internationally recognized forestry standards. At the end of 2009, we employed approximately 14,900 employees in 10 countries. We have customers worldwide and generated $5.5 billion in sales in 2009. Our stock trades on the New York Stock exchange under the symbol WY. Additional information about us is available at .
http://www.weyerhaeuser.com
Forward Looking Statement
This press release contains statements concerning the company's future results and performance that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on various assumptions and may not be accurate because of risks and uncertainties surrounding these assumptions. Factors listed below, as well as other factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from these forward-looking statements. There is no guarantee that any of the events anticipated by these forward-looking statements will occur. If any of the events occur, there is no guarantee what effect they will have on company operations or financial condition. The company will not update these forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
Some forward-looking statements discuss the company's plans, strategies and intentions. They use words such as "expects," "may," "will," "believes," "should," "approximately," "anticipates," "estimates," and "plans." In addition, these words may use the positive or negative or other variations of those terms.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the company's expectations during the during the fourth quarter of 2010 and in 2011, including continuing difficult economic conditions; a challenging homebuilding market in 2011, performance of the Company's Real Estate segment and impairments in the Real Estate segment; impairments resulting from management's review of the company's capacity plan in the Wood Products segment; performance of the Company' Cellulose Fibers segment; harvest levels in Timberlands; liquidity and funds available for distribution; and debt and interest expense levels. Major risks, uncertainties and assumptions that affect the company's businesses and may cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company also is a large exporter and is affected by changes in economic activity in Europe and Asia, particularly Japan and China.
It also is affected by changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the euro and the Canadian dollar. Restrictions on international trade or tariffs imposed on imports also may affect the company.



