ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. GLOSSARY OF TERMS In analyzing and discussing our business, we utilize certain metrics, ratios and other terms that are defined in the Glossary of Terms, which is located at the end of Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Strategy Our core business is our trading and investing customer franchise. Our strategy is to profitably grow this business by focusing on two primary groups of customers: traders and long term investors. We believe our trading customers, particularly our active traders, are the foundation of our brokerage business and we are focused on maintaining our competitive position with this customer group. Our long term investing customer group is less developed when compared to our trading customers and represents our largest opportunity for future growth. We believe our focus on certain key factors will enable us to execute our strategy of profitably growing our trading and investing business. These key factors include the development of innovative online trading and long term investing products and services, a concerted effort to deliver superior customer service, creative and cost effective marketing and sales, and expense discipline. In addition, we continue to invest significantly for long term growth so that we remain competitive among the largest online brokers. In addition to focusing on our customer franchise, our strategy includes an intense focus on addressing the balance sheet issues primarily caused by the mortgage crisis. We are focused on improving our capital structure as well as mitigating the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We believe the recapitalization transactions executed in the second and third quarters of 2009 significantly improved our capital structure and better positioned the Company for future growth. Key Factors Affecting Financial Performance Our financial performance is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including: customer demand for financial products and services; the weakness or strength of the residential real estate and credit markets; the performance, volume and volatility of the equity and capital markets; customer perception of the financial strength of our franchise; market demand and liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans and securities; and market demand and liquidity in the wholesale borrowings market, including securities sold under agreements to repurchase. In addition to the items noted above, our success in the future will depend upon, among other things: continuing our success in the acquisition, growth and retention of trading customers; our ability to generate meaningful growth in the long term investing customer group; our ability to assess and manage credit risk; 25 Table of Contents our ability to generate capital sufficient to meet our operating needs, particularly at a level sufficient to offset loan losses; our ability to assess and manage interest rate risk; and disciplined expense control and improved operational efficiency. Management monitors a number of metrics in evaluating the Companys performance. The most significant of these are shown in the table and discussed in the text below: As of or For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 Customer Activity Metrics: U.S. DARTs(1) 179,183 169,075 161,219 6 % U.S. average commission per trade $ 11.33 $ 10.98 $ 11.57 3 % End of period brokerage accounts(2) 2,630,079 2,515,806 2,373,265 5 % Net new brokerage accounts(2) 114,273 142,541 4,688 (20 )% Customer assets (dollars in billions) $ 153.2 $ 112.2 $ 185.0 37 % Net new brokerage assets (dollars in billions)(2) $ 7.2 $ 3.9 $ (13.3 ) * Brokerage related cash (dollars in billions)(2) $ 20.4 $ 15.8 $ 17.5 29 % Company Financial Metrics: Corporate cash (dollars in millions) $ 393.2 $ 434.9 $ 312.4 (10 )% E*TRADE Bank excess risk based capital (dollars in millions) $ 899.1 $ 714.7 $ 435.1 26 % Allowance for loan losses (dollars in millions) $ 1,182.7 $ 1,080.6 $ 508.2 9 % Enterprise net interest spread (basis points) 272 252 264 8 % Enterprise interest earning assets (average in billions) $ 44.5 $ 46.9 $ 56.1 (5 )% * Percentage not meaningful. (1) U.S. DARTs are defined as transactions executed on our domestic platforms. (2) References to brokerage in these metrics refer to activity on our domestic platforms and do not include brokerage activity from our international local brokerage accounts. Customer Activity Metrics DARTs are the predominant driver of commissions revenue from our customers. Average commission per trade is an indicator of changes in our customer mix, product mix and or product pricing. As a result, this metric is impacted by the mix between our customer groups. End of period brokerage accounts and net new brokerage accounts are indicators of our ability to attract and retain trading and investing customers. Changes in customer assets are an indicator of the value of our relationship with the customer. An increase in customer assets generally indicates that the use of our products and services by existing and new customers is expanding. Changes in this metric are also driven by changes in the valuations of our customers underlying securities, which declined substantially towards the end of 2008 and into 2009. Net new brokerage assets are total inflows to all new and existing brokerage accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing brokerage accounts and are a general indicator of the use of our products and services by existing and new brokerage customers. Customer cash and deposits, particularly our brokerage related cash, are an indicator of a deepening engagement with our customers and are a key driver of net operating interest income. 26 Table of Contents Company Financial Metrics Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. It is also a source of cash that can be deployed in our regulated subsidiaries. E*TRADE Bank excess risk based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum to be considered well capitalized and is an indicator of E*TRADE Banks ability to absorb future loan losses. Allowance for loan losses is an estimate of the losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is typically equal to the expected charge offs in our loan portfolio over the next twelve months as well as the estimated charge offs, including economic concessions to borrowers, over the estimated remaining life of loans modified in troubled debt restructurings. Enterprise interest earning assets, in conjunction with our enterprise net interest spread, are indicators of our ability to generate net operating interest income. Significant Events in 2009 Completion of $1.7 Billion Debt Exchange We exchanged $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of our corporate debt, including $1.3 billion principal amount of our 12 1/2% Notes and $0.4 billion principal amount of our 8% Notes, for an equal principal amount of newly issued non interest bearing convertible debentures (Debt Exchange); As a result of the Debt Exchange, we reduced our annual corporate interest payments by approximately $200 million and eliminated any substantial debt maturities until 2013; and The completion of the Debt Exchange resulted in a pre tax non cash charge of $968.3 million ($772.9 million after tax) and an increase of $707.2 million to additional paid in capital. The net effect of the exchange to shareholders equity was a reduction of $65.7 million. For further details regarding this charge, see Note 1 Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 14 Corporate Debt of 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Strategy Our core business is our trading and investing customer franchise. Our strategy is to profitably grow this business by focusing on two primary groups of customers: traders and long term investors. We believe our trading customers, particularly our active traders, are the foundation of our brokerage business and we are focused on maintaining our competitive position with this customer group. Our long term investing customer group is less developed when compared to our trading customers and represents our largest opportunity for future growth. We believe our focus on certain key factors will enable us to execute our strategy of profitably growing our trading and investing business. These key factors include the development of innovative online trading and long term investing products and services, a concerted effort to deliver superior customer service, creative and cost effective marketing and sales, and expense discipline. In addition, we continue to invest significantly for long term growth so that we remain competitive among the largest online brokers. In addition to focusing on our customer franchise, our strategy includes an intense focus on addressing the balance sheet issues primarily caused by the mortgage crisis. We are focused on improving our capital structure as well as mitigating the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We believe the recapitalization transactions executed in the second and third quarters of 2009 significantly improved our capital structure and better positioned the Company for future growth. Key Factors Affecting Financial Performance Our financial performance is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including: customer demand for financial products and services; the weakness or strength of the residential real estate and credit markets; the performance, volume and volatility of the equity and capital markets; customer perception of the financial strength of our franchise; market demand and liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans and securities; and market demand and liquidity in the wholesale borrowings market, including securities sold under agreements to repurchase. In addition to the items noted above, our success in the future will depend upon, among other things: continuing our success in the acquisition, growth and retention of trading customers; our ability to generate meaningful growth in the long term investing customer group; our ability to assess and manage credit risk; 25 Table of Contents our ability to generate capital sufficient to meet our operating needs, particularly at a level sufficient to offset loan losses; our ability to assess and manage interest rate risk; and disciplined expense control and improved operational efficiency. Management monitors a number of metrics in evaluating the Companys performance. The most significant of these are shown in the table and discussed in the text below: As of or For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 Customer Activity Metrics: U.S. DARTs(1) 179,183 169,075 161,219 6 % U.S. average commission per trade $ 11.33 $ 10.98 $ 11.57 3 % End of period brokerage accounts(2) 2,630,079 2,515,806 2,373,265 5 % Net new brokerage accounts(2) 114,273 142,541 4,688 (20 )% Customer assets (dollars in billions) $ 153.2 $ 112.2 $ 185.0 37 % Net new brokerage assets (dollars in billions)(2) $ 7.2 $ 3.9 $ (13.3 ) * Brokerage related cash (dollars in billions)(2) $ 20.4 $ 15.8 $ 17.5 29 % Company Financial Metrics: Corporate cash (dollars in millions) $ 393.2 $ 434.9 $ 312.4 (10 )% E*TRADE Bank excess risk based capital (dollars in millions) $ 899.1 $ 714.7 $ 435.1 26 % Allowance for loan losses (dollars in millions) $ 1,182.7 $ 1,080.6 $ 508.2 9 % Enterprise net interest spread (basis points) 272 252 264 8 % Enterprise interest earning assets (average in billions) $ 44.5 $ 46.9 $ 56.1 (5 )% * Percentage not meaningful. (1) U.S. DARTs are defined as transactions executed on our domestic platforms. (2) References to brokerage in these metrics refer to activity on our domestic platforms and do not include brokerage activity from our international local brokerage accounts. Customer Activity Metrics DARTs are the predominant driver of commissions revenue from our customers. Average commission per trade is an indicator of changes in our customer mix, product mix and or product pricing. As a result, this metric is impacted by the mix between our customer groups. End of period brokerage accounts and net new brokerage accounts are indicators of our ability to attract and retain trading and investing customers. Changes in customer assets are an indicator of the value of our relationship with the customer. An increase in customer assets generally indicates that the use of our products and services by existing and new customers is expanding. Changes in this metric are also driven by changes in the valuations of our customers underlying securities, which declined substantially towards the end of 2008 and into 2009. Net new brokerage assets are total inflows to all new and existing brokerage accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing brokerage accounts and are a general indicator of the use of our products and services by existing and new brokerage customers. Customer cash and deposits, particularly our brokerage related cash, are an indicator of a deepening engagement with our customers and are a key driver of net operating interest income. 26 Table of Contents Company Financial Metrics Corporate cash is an indicator of the liquidity at the parent company. It is also a source of cash that can be deployed in our regulated subsidiaries. E*TRADE Bank excess risk based capital is the excess capital that E*TRADE Bank has compared to the regulatory minimum to be considered well capitalized and is an indicator of E*TRADE Banks ability to absorb future loan losses. Allowance for loan losses is an estimate of the losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is typically equal to the expected charge offs in our loan portfolio over the next twelve months as well as the estimated charge offs, including economic concessions to borrowers, over the estimated remaining life of loans modified in troubled debt restructurings. Enterprise interest earning assets, in conjunction with our enterprise net interest spread, are indicators of our ability to generate net operating interest income. Significant Events in 2009 Completion of $1.7 Billion Debt Exchange We exchanged $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of our corporate debt, including $1.3 billion principal amount of our 12 1/2% Notes and $0.4 billion principal amount of our 8% Notes, for an equal principal amount of newly issued non interest bearing convertible debentures (Debt Exchange); As a result of the Debt Exchange, we reduced our annual corporate interest payments by approximately $200 million and eliminated any substantial debt maturities until 2013; and The completion of the Debt Exchange resulted in a pre tax non cash charge of $968.3 million ($772.9 million after tax) and an increase of $707.2 million to additional paid in capital. The net effect of the exchange to shareholders equity was a reduction of $65.7 million. For further details regarding this charge, see Note 1 Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 14 Corporate Debt of 
 
