ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with Item 6 "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". The discussion contains forward looking statements involving risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our results to differ materially from expectations. Factors that might cause such differences include those described in Item "1A Risk Factors" under the discussion Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, and elsewhere in this report. Overview How We Make Money: Restaurant Sales We operate fast casual, fresh Mexican food restaurants in 21 states throughout the United States and in the District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2005, we operated 481 restaurants and had eight restaurants operated by franchisees. We generate revenue primarily through restaurant sales, which represent sales of food and drinks in stores operated by Chipotle. Our total revenue was $627.7 million in 2005, a 33.3% increase from 2004 and a 98.9% increase from 2003, driven primarily by the 260 new store openings from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 and higher average store sales. Several factors affect our restaurant sales in any period, including mainly the number of stores in operation and average store sales. We define average store sales as the average trailing 12 month sales for company owned stores in operation for at least 13 months. New stores in existing and new markets have contributed substantially to our restaurant sales growth in the last three years. We opened 80, 104 and 76 stores in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We intend to open 80 to 90 stores in 2006, primarily in existing markets, although we do expect to enter several new markets in 2006. We categorize our stores as either end caps (at the end of a line of stores), in lines (in a line of stores), free standing or urban. As we expand into central urban areas, our average costs to open new stores will increase due to more significant reconstruction work that often needs to be done on those sites. In 2005, we spent on average about $910,000 in development and construction costs per store, with end caps costing about $730,000, in lines costing about $765,000, free standing costing about $1.2 million and urban costing about $1.3 million (in each case, reduced for landlord reimbursements received and excluding rent expense incurred during the construction period). Pre opening cash rent expenses averaged approximately $18,000 per restaurant during 2005 (excluding approximately $24,000 per restaurant in pre opening straight line rent during construction.) Average store sales for stores open at least 12 full months were $1.440 million in 2005, $1.361 million in 2004 and $1.274 million in 2003. There are two main factors increasing our average store sales: comp store sales increases, which we define as year over year sales comparisons for stores in operation for at least 12 full months (disregarding the portion of a month in which a store first begins operating) and increases in new store opening sales. We believe both of these have been impacted by the growing appeal of our core menu items, increasing consumer awareness and appreciation of our food quality and our focus on building customer loyalty. Our comp store sales increases were 10.2% in 2005, 13.3% in 2004 and 24.4% in 2003. Comp store sales reflect positive period to period growth due mainly to an increase in the number of customer transactions. In the third quarter of 2005, we began an initiative we call "through put," which focuses our efforts on improving the customer service time by getting the right crew, at the right stations, at the right time, doing the right things in the right order. We think the crew at our best performing through 25 put restaurants are more attentive and more engaging with customers while also serving them more quickly. Increases in new store opening sales have occurred primarily because the time it takes a new stores sales to ramp up has shortened as our brand awareness has grown. We expect our average stores sales to continue to increase in 2006 driven by comp store sales in the mid to high single digits. We believe that comp store sales likely will not continue to increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. However, we also expect to grow income from operations in the long term at an annual rate of around 25%. How We Spend Money: Food, Beverage and Packaging Costs, Labor, Other Restaurant Operating Costs and Other Expenses We have four basic types of expense: food, beverage and packaging costs; labor; other restaurant operating costs (consisting of occupancy costs and other operating costs); and other expenses (consisting of general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, pre opening costs, and gains or losses on asset disposals). As we have grown considerably so have these costs. Our combined food, beverage and packaging costs, labor and other restaurant operating costs have increased to $511.6 million in 2005 from $394.1 million in 2004 and $268.0 million in 2003. Our other expenses have also increased to $85.1 million in 2005 from $70.5 million in 2004 and $55.4 million in 2003. Food, beverage and packaging costs are the largest component of our expenses. Since we use higher quality ingredients that we purchase from carefully selected suppliers, and are increasing our use of more expensive, naturally raised and sustainably grown ingredients, our food expenses are often higher than those of other restaurants that use a higher proportion of commodity priced ingredients. Beef, chicken, cheese, avocados, beans, tomatoes and pork account for the most significant portion of our food, beverage and packaging costs. The price of these ingredients are the most volatile factor of our cost structure. We expect to continue to try to absorb short term commodity fluctuations without increasing prices which could negatively impact margins. Our food, beverage and packaging costs also include freight costs, which can be higher than those of some of our competitors in part because we rely primarily on perishable ingredients rather than on processed food products. These freight costs have also been affected by higher diesel prices that have in some cases resulted in the imposition of surcharges on the delivery of commodities to our distributors, which they have generally passed on to us to the extent permitted under our arrangements with them. Labor costs, which include wages for our store managers, assistant store managers and crew, bonuses, taxes and benefits, are the second largest component of our expenses. We generally have two shifts at most of our stores, which helps us better predict our store payroll expenses and in return provides our employees with more stable and predictable work hours. Some of the benefits we offer to our hourly employees are uncommon, such as English and Spanish lessons, free food and the opportunity to participate in our 401(k) plan. In addition to the benefits above, we are also in the early stages of implementing our new "Restaurateur" program which will be offered to our top performing managers and will provide for bonuses as a percentage of incremental sales above a threshold subject to a certain level of incremental profits being generated. This program will also provide for incentive payouts for hiring and developing other successful General Managers. Although this program may increase our labor costs in the short term, we believe that it will help us in the long term with the development and retention of great General Managers for our stores. Other restaurant operating costs include occupancy costs and other operating costs. Occupancy costs include rent, real estate taxes, property taxes and common area maintenance charges. Other operating costs include utilities, marketing and promotional costs (including free samples), bank fees, credit and debit card processing fees, store supplies, repair, maintenance and similar costs. One of the 26 unique employee benefits included in other operating costs is our company car program, which is available to store managers who have been with us for more than four years. Although this and other similarly uncommon benefits may increase our other operating costs, we believe it helps us to attract and keep good store managers, which is important to our future success. Our other expenses include general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, pre opening costs and gains or losses on disposals of assets. General and administrative expenses include the corporate and administrative functions that support our stores, including employee wages and benefits, travel, information systems, recruiting and training costs, corporate rent, professional fees, supplies and insurance and also include costs for store accounting services we received from McDonalds. Depreciation and amortization are periodic non cash charges that represent the reduction in usefulness and value of a tangible asset, principally relating to capital expenditures for store construction. Pre opening expenses are expenses related to preparing to open a new store, and include the costs of hiring and training the initial work force, travel and the cost of food, beverage and packaging used in connection with those activities. Losses on disposal of assets include the costs related to store closures, store equipment retirements and costs to investigate potential store sites that we considered but subsequently rejected. Other Factors Affecting Our Results Benefit for Income Taxes During 2005, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets and we reversed our valuation allowance, recognizing a non recurring $20.3 million tax benefit. Tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $12.8 million resulting in a net tax benefit of $7.5 million being recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. We expect to continue to incur tax expense in 2006. Equity Compensation Expenses We recognized a total of $2.1 million in stock based compensation during the year ended December 31, 2005 under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123R, Share Based Payment ("SFAS 123(R)"). We adopted SFAS 123(R) effective January 1, 2005, before its required date of adoption, using the modified prospective transition method. Under this transition method, our 2005 equity compensation costs of $0.3 million related to our stock option plan includes the portion vesting in the year for (i) all share based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of January 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock based Compensation ("SFAS 123"); and (ii) all share based payments granted after January 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In 2005, we granted 153,333 shares of our common stock with a grant date fair value of $19.50 per share, which vest in equal installments over three years, and recognized $1.4 million of related compensation expense. The fair value of the non vested stock was estimated by management. We did not obtain a contemporaneous valuation by an unrelated valuation specialist. Instead, managements valuation framework relied principally on data compiled as a part of its review of strategic options in early 2005, prior to our determination to proceed with our initial public offering. Because that data reflected market conditions contemporaneous with the grant of the non vested common stock, as well as our then current projections of our results and financial condition, management concluded that retention of a separate valuation specialist for purposes of the grant was not necessary. Determining the fair value of our common stock required making complex and subjective judgments, particularly since there was no public trading market for our common stock at the time of the valuation. We used the market approach to estimate the value of the enterprise when the 27 non vested common stock was granted. The market approach uses direct comparisons to other enterprises and their equity securities to estimate the fair value of privately issued securities. We relied primarily on the price to earnings methodology and compared our historical and forecasted income growth rate to determine our peer group within the high growth restaurant industry and, subsequently, the appropriate earnings multiple range to apply to our forecasted income in determining our value. We then reduced this by a marketability discount due to the lack of liquidity for our common stock. In connection with our initial public offering, we converted our outstanding stock appreciation rights ("SARs") granted in 2004 which were accounted for as a liability into stock options. The options have terms consistent with the original SARs, including the same vesting schedule (vest in full in July 2007) and an exercise price of $22.35 per share. In January 2006, we compared the fair value of the SARs immediately before that conversion to the fair value of the options and recognized compensation costs of approximately $0.2 million. Once converted, the options are accounted for as an equity award. In connection with our initial public offering, we completed a one time, broad based grant of 774,150 options to purchase common stock. As a result, we expect total stock based compensation expense of approximately $3.5 million to $4.0 million in 2006. Certain Trends and Uncertainties Relationship with McDonalds Since we became a subsidiary of McDonalds and began substantially expanding our operations in 1998, McDonalds has provided a significant portion of the capital needed to operate our business and open new stores. Generally, McDonalds has done this through direct equity investments, although it has also in some cases provided us with short term borrowings that we repaid through private placements of our equity securities. We expect that McDonalds will no longer finance us after our initial public offering, and well fund our growth with cash flow from operations, proceeds from the initial public offering and other sources. We also currently benefit from our McDonalds relationship in other ways, such as pricing benefits for some products and services. We will incur increased costs as a result of our initial public offering and the decrease in McDonalds ownership interest in us, and if McDonalds ownership interest declines significantly from their current ownership position, well lose an increasing amount of these benefits. See Item 1A "Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry As we increase our independence from McDonalds, we may face difficulties replacing services it currently provides to us and entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or service providers." For example: McDonalds relationship with Coca Cola has helped us contain our beverage costs and we may lose some of that pricing advantage if we are no longer a consolidated subsidiary of McDonalds or we may have to negotiate with other beverage suppliers to remain competitive; As a separate public company well incur legal, accounting and other expenses, which we expect to be a few million dollars in each of 2006 and future years, that we did not incur as a majority owned private subsidiary of McDonalds; we opened 104 stores in 2004, when we were able to use McDonalds real estate personnel and other resources to locate and obtain additional store sites in certain markets. We did not use those resources in 2005 and do not anticipate using them in 2006 or in future years; and we expect that some of our labor costs, such as workers compensation, will increase as McDonalds ownership interest decreases. 28 Sourcing Our focus on "food with integrity" has constrained our sourcing flexibility to some extent. Weve attempted to be careful in expanding that initiative so that we dont outpace available supply. Some of our ingredients come from small farms that have facilities that must comply with federal or industry standards for classification as natural, and they may face economic or other limits on their growth. We believe that consumers increasing concern about where and how food is raised, environmental management and animal husbandry will foster demand for these foods, which will in turn attract the interest and capital investment of larger farms and suppliers. That said, we understand that well continue to be at the forefront of this trend and must balance our interest in advancing "food with integrity" with our desire to provide great food at reasonable prices. If our focus resonates with consumers, it should improve our sourcing flexibility, although wed expect that these kinds of ingredients and other raw materials will remain more expensive than commodity priced equivalents for some time to come. How We Did: Results of Operations As our business grows, as we open more stores and hire more people, our food, beverage, packaging costs, labor and other restaurant operating costs increase. Our operating results for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are expressed as a percentage of total revenue below: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Restaurant sales 99.6 % 99.5 % 99.5 % Franchise royalties and fees 0.4 0.5 0.5 Total revenue 100.0 100.0 100.0 Food, beverage and packaging costs 32.2 32.7 33.3 Labor costs 28.5 29.6 29.8 Occupancy costs 7.6 7.7 8.1 Other operating costs 13.2 13.7 13.8 General and administrative expenses 8.3 9.5 10.8 Depreciation and amortization 4.5 4.6 4.8 Pre opening costs 0.3 0.5 0.5 Loss on disposal of assets 0.5 0.4 1.4 Total costs and expenses 95.1 98.7 102.5 Income (loss) from operations 4.9 1.3 (2.5 ) Interest income 0.1 Interest expense (0.1 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 4.8 1.3 (2.4 ) Benefit for income taxes 1.2 Net income (loss) 6.0 % 1.3 % (2.4 )% 29  Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 The table below presents our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related period to period changes: Year Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Increase/ (Decrease) 2005 2004 (in millions, except percentages) Restaurant sales $ 625.1 $ 468.6 $ 156.5 33.4 % Food, beverage and packaging costs 202.3 154.1 48.1 31.2 Labor costs 178.7 139.5 39.2 28.1 Occupancy costs 47.6 36.2 11.4 31.6 Other operating costs 83.0 64.3 18.7 29.1 General and administrative expenses 52.0 44.8 7.1 15.9 Depreciation and amortization. 28.0 21.8 6.2 28.5 Pre opening costs 2.0 2.2 (0.2 ) (10.1 ) Loss on disposal of assets 3.1 1.7 1.4 85.9 Net interest expense 0.8 0.8 n/m * Benefit for income taxes 7.5 7.5 n/m * *Not meaningful. Restaurant Sales. Of the $156.5 million increase in restaurant sales, $61.8 million resulted from 103 company operated stores opened in 2004, $47.4 million was due to an increase in comp store sales increases, and $47.3 million was due to 80 company operated stores opened in 2005. Average store sales for the trailing 12 month period ended December 31, 2005 increased 5.8% to $1.440 million from $1.361 million for the trailing 12 month period ended December 31, 2004, driven primarily by comp store sales growth of 10.2% that reflected increasing nationwide awareness of our brand, which also enabled new stores to open with higher average sales. A substantial majority of the comp store sales growth was due to an increase in the number of transactions, and the remainder was driven primarily by menu price increases in certain markets. Food, Beverage and Packaging Costs. As a percentage of total revenue, food, beverage and packaging costs decreased due primarily to a decline in raw ingredient costs and menu price increases, partially offset by increased fuel costs. Labor Costs. Labor costs as a percentage of revenue decreased largely due to improved employee efficiency resulting from an increase in the number of transactions, which did not require a corresponding increase in staff, and a gradual improvement over time in staffing our stores with the most appropriate number of crew members for each store. Occupancy Costs. As a percentage of total revenue, occupancy costs decreased due to higher average store sales on a partially fixed cost base. The decrease was partially offset by inflationary pressures on rents and the opening of stores in more expensive locations such as New York City. Other Operating Costs. Other operating costs as a percentage of total revenue declined primarily due to the effect of higher average store sales on a partially fixed cost base and improvements in store operations over time. General and Administrative Expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses primarily resulted from hiring more employees as we grew and stock based compensation expense resulting from a stock grant and the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The increase in expense was offset by the $4.0 million charge in 2004 to establish a reserve related to potential credit card liabilities. As a 30 percentage of total revenue, these expenses decreased due primarily to the effect of higher average store sales on a partially fixed cost base. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to stores opened in 2005 and in late 2004. As a percentage of total revenue, depreciation and amortization remained relatively consistent at 4.5% in 2005 and 4.6% in 2004. Pre Opening Costs. Pre opening costs decreased principally because there were fewer store openings in 2005 than in 2004. In October 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13 1, Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period ("FSP 13 1"). FSP 13 1 requires rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases incurred during a construction period to be recognized as expense. FSP 13 1 applies to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Retroactive application is permitted, but not required. Had FSP 13 1 been effective in 2005, we would have recognized additional pre opening costs of approximately $4.2 million. We expect pre opening costs to increase as we begin to recognize this expense in 2006. Loss on Disposal of Assets. The increase in loss on disposal of assets was largely due to additional write offs associated with investigating potential store sites that we considered but subsequently rejected, as well as write offs of obsolete equipment as a result of software upgrades. Net Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense (net of interest income) was due to higher average borrowings from McDonalds in 2005 than in the comparable 2004 period, as McDonalds did not make any equity contributions in 2005. Benefit for Income Taxes. During 2005, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets and we reversed our valuation allowance of $20.3 million. The benefit from the reduction of the valuation allowance was partially offset by our current tax expense of $12.8 million, which resulted in the realization of a net tax benefit of $7.5 million. The $20.3 million tax benefit was a one time tax benefit and we expect to incur tax expense prospectively. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 The table below presents our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related year to year changes: Year Ended December 31, Increase/ (Decrease) % Increase/ (Decrease) 2004 2003 (in millions, except percentages) Restaurant sales $ 468.6 $ 314.0 $ 154.6 49.2 % Food, beverage and packaging costs 154.1 104.9 49.2 46.9 Labor costs 139.5 94.0 45.5 48.4 Occupancy costs 36.2 25.6 10.6 41.5 Other operating costs 64.3 43.5 20.8 47.7 General and administrative expenses 44.8 34.2 10.6 31.1 Depreciation and amortization. 21.8 15.1 6.7 44.5 Pre opening costs 2.2 1.6 0.6 34.4 Loss on disposal of assets 1.7 4.5 (2.8 ) (62.7 ) Net interest income 0.2 (0.2 ) n/m * *not meaningful 31 Restaurant Sales. Of the $154.6 million increase in restaurant sales, $62.8 million resulted from sales by 103 company operated stores opened in 2004, $50.1 million resulted from additional sales in 2004 by 74 company operated stores opened in 2003 and $41.7 million was due to comp store sales increases. A substantial majority of the comp store sales growth was due to an increase in the number of transactions and the remainder was driven primarily by menu price increases in certain markets. Average store sales for 2004 increased 6.8% to $1.361 million from $1.274 million for 2003, driven primarily by comp store sales growth of 13.3% that reflected increasing nationwide awareness of our brand, which also enabled new stores to open with higher average store sales. Food, Beverage and Packaging Costs. As a percentage of total revenue, food, beverage and packaging costs decreased largely driven by a menu price increase that was partially offset by higher chicken, beef, cheese and tomato costs. Labor Costs. Labor costs as a percentage of total revenue decreased largely due to improved employee efficiency resulting from an increase in average store sales, which did not require a corresponding increase in staff. Occupancy Costs. As a percentage of total revenue, occupancy costs decreased primarily as a result of the effect of higher average store sales on a largely fixed cost base. Other Operating Costs. Other operating costs as a percentage of restaurant sales declined primarily due to the effect of higher average store sales on a partially fixed cost base. General and Administrative Expenses. The $10.6 million increase in general and administrative expenses primarily resulted from a $4.0 million charge to establish a reserve related to potential credit card liabilities and hiring more employees as we grew. As a percentage of total revenue, these expenses decreased as a result of our ability to further leverage our existing corporate infrastructure over more stores. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to new stores openings. As a percentage of total revenue, depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to the effect of higher average store sales on a largely fixed cost base. Pre Opening Costs. The increase in pre opening costs was principally due to the opening of 103 company operated stores in 2004, an increase of 29 company operated store openings from 2003. Loss on Disposal of Assets. The decrease in loss on disposal of assets was largely due to a $2.0 million write off associated with the closing of three stores in 2003. Net Interest Income. The decrease in interest income (net of interest expense) was due to reduced earnings on average excess cash deposits in 2004 as compared to 2003. 32 Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality The following table presents consolidated statements of operations data for each of the eight quarters in the period ended December 31, 2005. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results for any subsequent quarter. 2005 Quarters Ended Mar. 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31 (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 133.4 $ 156.3 $ 164.7 $ 173.3 Operating income 4.4 9.3 9.5 7.7 Net income 2.6 25.7 5.1 4.3 Number of stores opened in quarter 18 17 17 28 Comp store sales growth 4.1 % 9.6 % 11.5 % 14.3 % 2004 Quarters Ended Mar. 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31 (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 101.4 $ 117.2 $ 124.6 $ 127.5 Operating income (loss) 0.7 4.9 4.2 (3.8 ) Net income (loss) 0.5 5.0 4.3 (3.7 ) Number of stores opened in quarter 29 26 21 28 Comp store sales growth 23.2 % 13.2 % 8.9 % 10.4 % Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average store sales are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, stores located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year. The number of trading days can also affect our results. For example, 2004 was a leap year, which contributed about 3 percentage points of the increase in our restaurant sales in February of that year. Overall, on a year to year basis, changes in trading days do not have a significant impact on our results. Our quarterly results are also affected by other factors such as the number of new stores opened in a quarter and unanticipated events. New stores have lower margins immediately following opening as a result of the expenses associated with opening new stores and their operating inefficiencies in the months immediately following opening. Because we tend to open more new stores later in the fiscal year, our fourth quarter net income may be lower than in other quarters. In addition, unanticipated events also impact our results. For example, in the second quarter of 2005, we determined that it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets and we reversed our valuation allowance of $20.3 million, resulting in a net tax benefit of $16.7 million in that quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded charges of $4.0 million to establish a reserve for claims seeking reimbursement for purportedly fraudulent credit and debit card charges and for the cost of replacing cards and monitoring expenses and fees, which reduced our operating income. Our loss on disposal of assets in the first quarter of 2004 decreased compared to the same period in 2003 largely due to a $2.0 million write off associated with the closing of three stores in the first quarter of 2003. Accordingly, results for a particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary liquidity and capital requirements are for new store construction, working capital and general corporate needs. Until our initial public offering, we have financed these requirements primarily through equity sales to McDonalds and others as well as through cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had no cash and cash equivalents. On January 25, 2006, our initial public offering became effective. We will use the net proceeds from the offering of approximately $121.3 million to provide additional long term capital support to the growth of our business (primarily through opening stores), to continue to maintain our existing stores and for general corporate purposes. McDonalds and, to a lesser extent, some of our minority shareholders have historically provided us with significant financing. We have also historically obtained short term borrowings from McDonalds from time to time under documented lines of credit at an interest rate equal to the U.S. prime rate plus 100 basis points. The existing line of credit with McDonalds, (under which there were no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2005) will expire in June 2006 and is not expected to be renewed. Loans under these agreements were repaid with proceeds of private placements of our equity securities. In April 2004 and June 2003, we issued shares of common stock to McDonalds and to certain other persons who were accredited investors (consisting of friends and family of our employees and persons having business relationships with us), in each case as identified in our shareholders agreement, for an aggregate purchase price of $65.0 million and $38.0 million, respectively. We havent required significant working capital because customers pay using cash or credit cards and because our operations do not require significant receivables, nor do they require significant inventories due, in part, to our use of various fresh ingredients. In addition, we generally have the right to pay for the purchase of food, beverage and supplies some time after the receipt of those items, generally within ten days, thereby reducing the need for incremental working capital to support growth. Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $77.4 million for 2005 compared to $39.7 million for 2004. The $37.8 million increase was primarily attributable to a $31.6 million improvement in net income driven by higher average store sales and higher store margins due to having significantly more stores in operation. Net cash provided by operating activities was $39.7 million for 2004 compared to $22.1 million for 2003. The $17.6 million increase in 2004 was primarily attributable to a $13.8 million improvement in net income (loss) driven primarily by higher average store sales and higher store margins. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $83.0 million for 2005 compared to $95.6 million in 2004. The $12.6 million decrease related to lower capital expenditures in 2005 as we opened 80 stores in 2005, compared with 104 stores in 2004. Net cash used in investing activities was $95.6 million for 2004 compared to $86.1 million for 2003. The increase was primarily as a result of higher capital expenditures as we opened 104 stores in 2004 compared to 76 in 2003. Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.7 million in 2005 compared to $55.9 million in 2004. The $50.3 million decrease was attributable to decreased financing requirements as a result of improvements in net cash provided by operating activities and fewer store openings in 2005 as compared to 2004. Net cash provided by financing activities was $55.9 million for 2004 compared to $64.0 million for 2003. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities in 2004 was attributable to decreased financing requirements as a result of our improvement in net cash provided by operating activities, which was partially offset by more store openings in 2004. Liquidity and Capital Expenditures. We will use the proceeds from the initial public offering to provide additional long term capital to support the growth of our business (primarily through opening stores) and to continue to maintain our existing stores and for general corporate purposes. We do not expect McDonalds to provide us with financing in the future; However, in accordance with the tax allocation agreement between McDonalds and Chipotle, McDonalds has agreed to compensate us for 34 any NOLs or tax credits it uses that are attributable to our operations. After McDonalds files its consolidated federal tax return for 2006, the year we departed from the consolidated federal tax return, we expect to receive final payment for the federal and some state NOLs that we have not utilized on a stand alone basis. At December 31, 2005, the amount owed by McDonalds totaled $28.2 million. Our total capital expenditures for 2005 were $83.0 million, and we expect to incur capital expenditures of about $95 million in 2006, relating primarily to our construction of new stores in both periods. We believe that cash from operations, together with the net proceeds from the initial public offering and the reimbursement from McDonalds for use of our NOLs, will be enough to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs over at least the next 24 months. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 were as follows: Payments Due by Period Total 1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years (in thousands) Operating leases $ 778,739 $ 45,158 $ 89,280 $ 88,837 $ 555,464 Deemed landlord financing 6,829 310 620 626 5,273 Total contractual cash obligations $ 785,568 $ 45,468 $ 89,900 $ 89,463 $ 560,737 Were obligated under non cancelable leases for our stores and administrative offices. Our leases generally have initial terms of either five to ten years with two or more five year extensions, for end cap and in line stores, or 15 to 20 years with several five year extensions, for free standing stores. Our leases generally require us to pay a proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance, common charges and other operating costs. Some store leases provide for contingent rental payments based on sales thresholds, although we generally do not expect to pay significant contingent rent on these properties based on the thresholds in those leases. See Item 1A "Risk Factors Substantially all of our stores are located in leased space that is subject to long term non cancelable leases, and were also subject to all of the risks associated with owning real estate with respect to the real property that we own." We have entered into a services agreement with McDonalds pursuant to which they will continue to provide us, for a mutually agreed upon cost of about $10 to $11 million for the first year, with certain services it has historically provided, including, among others, accounting services, insurance policy coverage and certain welfare plans for our employees. The services agreement became operative on the closing date of the initial public offering, January 31, 2006 and has terms ranging from approximately one or two years depending on the service. Services will renew automatically unless we or McDonalds terminate the services agreement prior to renewal. In addition, we may in the future repurchase Chipotle franchises from our franchisees in connection with their obligation to dispose of either that franchise or their McDonalds franchise within 24 months after relevant triggering events. We are not obligated to repurchase any of these franchises. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had no off balance sheet arrangements or obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We describe our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies, in Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those that we believe are both 35 significant and that require us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because we need to estimate the effect of inherently uncertain matters. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experiences and various other factors that we believe to be appropriate under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and we might obtain different estimates if we used different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements: Leasehold Improvements, Property and Equipment We state the value of our leasehold improvements, property and equipment, including primarily store equipment, furniture, fixtures and small wares at cost, minus accumulated depreciation and amortization. We calculate depreciation using the straight line method of accounting over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. We amortize our leasehold improvements using the straight line method of accounting over the shorter of the lease term (including reasonably assured renewal periods) or the estimated useful lives of the related assets. We generally use estimated useful lives of between three and seven years for equipment; between three and ten years for furniture and fixtures; and between three and 20 years for leasehold improvements and buildings. We expense repairs and maintenance as incurred, but capitalize major improvements and betterments. We make judgments and estimates related to the expected useful lives of these assets that are affected by factors such as changes in economic conditions and changes in operating performance. If we change those assumptions in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We review property and equipment, including leasehold improvements, for impairment when events or circumstances indicate these assets might be impaired. We test impairment using historical cash flow and other relevant facts and circumstances as the primary basis for our estimates of future cash flows. We perform this analysis at the store level to determine whether there are any indicators of permanent impairment. In determining future cash flows, we make significant estimates with respect to future operating results of each store over its remaining lease term. If we determine that assets are impaired, we then measure the impairment charge by calculating the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds its fair value, as determined by an estimate of discounted future cash flows. We use estimates and assumptions that are subject to a high degree of judgment in determining asset fair values. If we change those assumptions in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. Goodwill Goodwill resulted primarily from McDonalds purchases of interest in Chipotle. Goodwill is not subject to amortization. We do, however, test goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We completed our most recent impairment test as of November 30, 2005, and determined that there were no impairment losses related to goodwill or other indefinite lived assets. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we compared the carrying amount of the Company to its fair value based upon the low end of the proposed initial public offering price range at that time, $15.50. After the effective date of the Companys initial public offering in January 2006, the fair value of the Company will be determined based upon quoted market prices. If we change these estimates in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for goodwill. Leases We lease most of our store locations. We account for our leases under FASB Statement No. 13, Accounting for Leases ("SFAS 13") and subsequent amendments, which require that our leases be 36 evaluated and classified as operating or capital leases for financial reporting purposes. We recognize rent expense for our operating leases, which have escalating rentals over the term of the lease (which includes reasonably assured renewal options), on a straight line basis over the lease term. In addition, the lease term is deemed to commence when we take physical possession of the leased property. We currently capitalize the straight line rent amounts during the period prior to store opening. We will, however, begin expensing these amounts beginning January 1, 2006 as a result of the issuance of FSP 13 1. We use a consistent lease term when calculating depreciation of leasehold improvements, when determining straight line rent expense and when determining classification of our leases as either operating or capital. Contingent rents are generally amounts we must pay to landlords when we have sales in excess of certain thresholds stipulated in certain store leases and are included in rent expense as they accrue. Some of our leases contain tenant improvement allowances. For purposes of recognizing tenant improvement allowances, we amortize the incentives over their estimated useful lives. For tenant improvement allowances, we also record a deferred rent liability or an obligation on our consolidated balance sheet. Insurance Liability We maintain, or in some cases McDonalds maintains on our behalf, various insurance policies for workers compensation, employee health, general liability and property damage. Pursuant to those policies, were responsible for losses up to certain limits for our general liability and property damage insurance and are required to estimate a liability that represents our ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. This liability is based on our estimates of the ultimate costs to be incurred to settle known claims and claims not reported as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions. If actual trends differ from our estimates, our financial results could be affected. Income Taxes Prior to our initial public offering in January 2006, we were not a separate taxable entity for federal or most state income tax purposes. Consequently, McDonalds included our results of operations in its consolidated federal and state income tax returns for the periods prior to our initial public offering. We will remain in McDonalds consolidated tax returns for some states until their ownership percentage decreases to below 50%. Our tax provision is computed based on a separate return basis. Weve accounted for, and currently account for, income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes ("SFAS 109"). SFAS 109 established financial accounting reporting standards for the effects of income taxes resulting from an enterprises activities during the current and preceding years. It requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting of income taxes. We recognize deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or McDonalds tax returns. If the future consequences of differences between financial reporting basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities result in a net deferred tax asset, we evaluate the probability of our ability to realize the future benefits indicated by that asset. If it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized, well record a valuation allowance related to a deferred tax asset. Our ability to realize that net deferred tax asset generally depends on whether we have enough taxable income of an appropriate character within the carry forward period permitted by the tax law. Unless we have enough taxable income to offset the deductible amounts and carry forwards, the related tax benefits will expire unused. We evaluate both positive and negative evidence in making a determination as to whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized, and we measure deferred items based on enacted tax laws. This evaluation requires us to project our taxable income to determine if our income is sufficient to realize the tax assets. The 37 preparation of the projections requires considerable judgment and is subject to change to reflect future events and changes in tax laws. Reserves/Contingencies for Litigation and Other Matters We are involved in various claims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions are subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcomes with any degree of certainty. Consequently, we were unable to ascertain the ultimate aggregate amount of monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these matters as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. Once resolved, however, these actions may affect our operating results and cash flows. In addition, were involved in claims relating to the possible theft of our customers credit and debit card data. In 2004, we recorded charges of $4.0 million to establish a reserve for claims seeking reimbursement for purportedly fraudulent credit and debit card charges and the cost of replacing cards and monitoring expenses and fees. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining reserve was $1.8 million. As the situation develops and more information becomes available, the amount of the reserve may increase or decrease accordingly. See Item 1A "Risk Factors" We may have experienced a security breach with respect to certain customer credit and debit card data, and weve incurred and may continue to incur substantial costs as a result of this matter. We may also incur costs resulting from other security risks we may face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2005, the FASB issued FSP 13 1. FSP 13 1 requires rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases incurred during a construction period to be recognized as expense. FSP 13 1 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Retroactive application is permitted, but not required. Had FSP 13 1 been effective, the Company would have recognized additional pre opening costs of approximately $4.2 million, $3.6 million and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK In addition to risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks. The following discussion provides additional detail regarding our exposure to the risks of changing interest rates and commodity price risks associated with the food products and other operating essentials we purchase that are affected by commodity pricing and therefore subject to price volatility caused by weather, production problems, delivery difficulties and other factors that are beyond our control. This discussion includes an assessment of the potential impact of inflation on our business. Changing Interest Rates Were exposed to interest rate risk through the investment of our cash. Prior to our initial public offering we operated under an agreement with McDonalds whereby they agreed to pay us interest on any excess cash at the 30 day commercial paper rate plus 50 basis points. Changes in interest rates affect the interest income we earn and, therefore, impact our cash flows and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had deposited $2.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively, with McDonalds under this agreement, bearing interest at 4.63% and 2.66% on each respective date. Following our initial public offering, we will no longer be maintaining our excess cash with McDonalds. With the proceeds received from our initial public offering, we intend to invest in short term marketable securities. We will be subject to market risk on those short term investments. 38 Commodity Price Risks Were also exposed to commodity price risks. Many of the ingredients we use to prepare our food, as well as our packaging materials, are commodities that are affected by weather, seasonality and other factors outside our control. In 2003, our food expense was affected by higher avocado prices reflecting a poor growing season due to inclement weather and pestilence. In 2004, prices for chicken rose significantly due to a ban by Asian countries on their chicken exports following outbreaks of avian flu. The more limited worldwide chicken supply, combined with continued high demand, drove prices upward. Beef prices have also been higher in the past year due to U.S. restrictions on Canadian imports in the wake of incidents of "mad cow" disease in Canadian cattle herds. Weather is also a factor, especially when severe conditions limit the growing season or crop quality. This happened in 2004, when hurricanes in some parts of the United States damaged tomato crops and drove prices higher. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward pricing protocols under which we agree with our supplier on fixed prices for deliveries at sometime in the future, fixed pricing protocols under which we agree on a fixed price with our supplier for the duration of that protocol, and formula pricing protocols under which the prices we pay are based on specified formula related to the prices of the goods, such as spot prices. Though we do not have long term supply contracts or guaranteed purchase amounts, our pricing protocols with suppliers can remain in effect for periods ranging from one month to a year, depending on the outlook for prices of the particular ingredient. We also sometimes buy supplies at current market or spot prices. Weve tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, crises and other world events that may affect supply prices. Long term increases in ingredient prices could adversely affect our future results if we could not increase menu prices at the same pace for competitive or other reasons. Similarly, if we believe the ingredient price increase to be short in duration we may choose not to pass on the cost increases, which could adversely affect our short term financial results. Inflation Over the past five years, inflation has not significantly affected our operating results. The impact of inflation could, however, significantly affect our operations in the following ways: Food, beverage and packaging costs as a percentage of revenue has fluctuated in the past, generally in response to changes in availability of our main ingredients. Based on current market conditions, we believe that the cost of our main ingredients should not experience significant volatility, except for short term chicken prices, which have increased as a result of the damage to chicken farms caused by hurricane Katrina. In addition, diesel prices could also experience further increases as a result of the shut down of several oil refineries by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which could cause our other ingredient costs to increase. We pay many of our crew members hourly rates related to the applicable federal or state minimum wage (although all of our crew members make more than the minimum wage). Our workers compensation and health insurance costs have been and are subject to continued inflationary pressures. Costs for construction, taxes, repairs, maintenance and insurance are all subject to inflationary pressures and impact our occupancy costs. In some markets, inflation rates may be higher than the national average. 39   
 
