FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20030513080316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Schering-Plough Reports Sales, Earnings For 2003 First Quarter"
99.2 Product Sales Data
99.3 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Carrie Cox Appointed Head of Schering-Plough Global Pharmaceutical Business"
99.4 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Fred Hassan, New Schering-Plough Chairman and CEO, Announces Initial Action Steps in Turn-Around Program"
99.5 Letter to All Schering-Plough People Worldwide
99.6 Employment Agreement Dated as of May 12, 2003 between Carrie Cox and Schering-Plough
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Earnings
Schering-Plough Corporation today issued a press release reporting sales and earnings for the 2003 first quarter and withdrawing previous earnings guidance, and provided additional product sales data. The press release also announced that new Chairman and CEO Fred Hassan will discuss the corporation's progress at the second quarter earnings conference call on July 23, 2003 and that Hassan will review Schering-Plough's prospects and provide a strategy for future growth at an analyst meeting for November 19, 2003 in New York City. The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1, and the product sales data is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.2. The information in this paragraph is being furnished pursuant to both Item 9 - Regulation FD Disclosure and Item 12 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition, of Form 8-K and is being presented under Item 9 of Form 8-K in accordance with the interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583.
Carrie Cox Appointed Head of Schering-Plough Global Pharmaceutical Business
Schering-Plough today issued a press release announcing appointment of Carrie Cox as Executive Vice President and President, Global Pharmaceutical Business of Schering-Plough. She begins her assignment May 15, 2003. Her appointment is a major element in the early action steps announced today by Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough's new Chairman and CEO, to revitalize the corporation. Cox, a registered pharmacist with more than 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry, served as Executive Vice President and President of the Global Prescription Business at Pharmacia Corporation prior to its merger with Pfizer last month. The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.3 and Cox's employment contract is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.6.
Fred Hassan, New Schering-Plough Chairman and CEO Announces Initial Action Steps in Turn-Around Program
Schering-Plough Chairman and CEO Fred Hassan announced today the first steps in an action agenda to stabilize and then turn around the corporation, which has been suffering from declining sales and earnings as well as legal and regulatory challenges. The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.4.
Letter To All Schering-Plough People Worldwide
Fred Hassan today sent a letter to all Schering-Plough people worldwide containing additional details to the action agenda to stabilize and then turn around the corporation. The letter is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.5.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Date: May 13, 2003
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Schering-Plough Reports Sales, Earnings For 2003 First Quarter"
99.2 Product Sales Data
99.3 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Carrie Cox Appointed Head of Schering-Plough Global Pharmaceutical Business"
99.4 Press Release Dated May 13, 2003, titled "Fred Hassan, New Schering-Plough Chairman and CEO, Announces Initial Action Steps in Turn-Around Program"
99.5 Letter to All Schering-Plough People Worldwide
99.6 Employment Agreement Dated as of May 12, 2003 between Carrie Cox and Schering-Plough

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
 
FOR RELEASE: IMMEDIATELY
Investor Contacts:
Geraldine U. Foster
Lisa W. DeBerardine
Janet M. Barth
908-298-7436
Media Contact: Denise K. Foy (908) 298-7616
Schering-Plough's new chairman and chief executive officer, Fred Hassan, said, "I believe that despite the major challenges that Schering-Plough faces today, we will succeed in delivering the turnaround and getting on a track of solid, long-term growth."
"2003 is clearly a transition year. Having just arrived, I am assessing this situation and believe it is right not to be constrained by the business assumptions that supported the previously stated earnings guidance," Hassan explained. Accordingly, Schering-Plough is withdrawing its prior guidance that full-year 2003 diluted earnings per share would be in the range of 75 cents to 85 cents.
Hassan added, "I want to thank our investors in advance for their confidence and patience. You will note that we are also announcing today early action steps that we are taking to revitalize the company and build for long-term success. In the coming months I will be in a position to discuss our progress. The first opportunity will be during the quarterly conference call scheduled for second quarter earnings on July 23, 2003."
In addition, an analyst meeting in New York City is also being planned for November 19. At this meeting Hassan will review the company's prospects and provide a strategy for future growth. Further details about the meeting will be provided at a later date.
First Quarter Financial Highlights
Diluted earnings per share decreased 71% to 12 cents.
Net income decreased 71% to $173 million.
Sales decreased 19% to $2.1 billion.
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales decreased 26% to $1.6 billion.
U.S. pharmaceutical sales decreased 52% to $648 million.
International pharmaceutical sales increased 13% to $980 million.
R&D spending increased 13% to $344 million.
KENILWORTH, N.J., May 13, 2003 - Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2003. Net income and diluted earnings per share declined 71 percent to $173 million and 12 cents, respectively, due predominantly to the loss of U.S. sales and profits of the prescription CLARITIN line of nonsedating antihistamines, which was introduced for over-the-counter (OTC) sale in December 2002. This compares to net income of $600 million and diluted earnings per share of 41 cents per share in the 2002 period. First quarter 2003 sales of $2.1 billion were 19 percent lower than the sales of $2.6 billion in the 2002 period. Excluding exchange, first quarter sales decreased 24 percent, with volume declines of 28 percent.
First Quarter Sales Results
In the 2003 first quarter, worldwide pharmaceutical sales totaled $1.6 billion, down 26 percent (down 31 percent when foreign exchange is excluded) compared to sales of $2.2 billion in the 2002 period. U.S. pharmaceutical sales of $648 million declined 52 percent versus sales of $1.3 billion in the 2002 period, primarily due to the rapid decline in sales of prescription Claritin, resulting from its patent expiration and conversion from prescription to OTC status in December 2002. International pharmaceutical sales increased 13 percent to $980 million compared to $870 million in the 2002 first quarter, benefiting primarily from favorable foreign exchange, coupled with growth (ex-exchange) in the anti-infective/anticancer and allergy/respiratory product sales categories. Excluding exchange, sales of international pharmaceuticals were unchanged.
Intron Franchise
Worldwide sales of the Intron franchise totaled $516 million, down 7 percent in the 2003 first quarter versus sales in the comparable 2002 period of $556 million. The Intron franchise includes the anticancer/antiviral agent Intron A Injection, as monotherapy and in combination with Rebetol Capsules for treating hepatitis C, and Peg-Intron Powder for Injection, a longer-acting form of Intron A, as monotherapy and in combination with rebetol for treating hepatitis C.
In the United States, INTRON franchise sales were $279 million (including U.S. REBETOL sales of $136 million), 18 percent lower than 2002 first quarter sales of $342 million, due to reductions in trade inventory levels, tempered by expansion in the overall prescription hepatitis C market. In the first quarter a new competitor was launched in the hepatitis C market. The overall market share of the INTRON franchise has been declining, reflecting this new market competition.
International sales of the Intron franchise grew 10 percent to $237 million versus $215 million in the 2002 first quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, sales were down due to increasing competition in various European markets and lower sales in Japan.
Also in the first quarter, Schering-Plough announced separate licensing agreements with Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva Pharmaceuticals to resolve U.S. ribavirin patent disputes. Under terms of the agreements, Schering-Plough will grant to each company, respectively, a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to its U.S. ribavirin patents. The agreements do not affect Three Rivers', Geneva's or Teva's reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc. As previously reported, Schering-Plough anticipates the possibility of generic ribavirin competitors in the United States in 2003.
Remicade
International sales of Remicade, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease, increased 89 percent to $114 million in the 2003 first quarter versus sales of $60 million in 2002. Excluding foreign exchange, sales rose significantly due to increased patient utilization. Schering-Plough has worldwide rights to market Remicade, except in the United States, Japan and parts of the Far East, from Centocor, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary. In February, the European Union's (EU) Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP) recommended approval of REMICADE for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis (AS), a chronic and debilitating inflammatory disease of the spine, and for an expanded labeling for maintenance dosing for Crohn's disease. EU approval for the treatment of AS would make REMICADE the first and only anti-TNF agent indicated for this debilitating disease, which affects an estimated 1.5 million Europeans.
Temodar
In the 2003 first quarter, worldwide sales of Temodar Capsules, for treating certain types of brain tumors, were essentially flat at $59 million. U.S. sales decreased 24 percent to $26 million versus $34 million in the 2002 first quarter, due to reductions in trade inventory levels, tempered by market share gains and market growth. International sales of $34 million increased 34 percent from $25 million in the comparable 2002 period, resulting from increased market penetration.
CAELYX
International sales of CAELYX, a long-circulating pegylated liposomal formulation of doxorubicin hydrochloride, grew 56 percent to $22 million in the 2003 first quarter versus $14 million in 2002, benefiting from increased patient utilization coupled with the launch of a newly approved indication. In January, CAELYX received EU approval as monotherapy for metastatic breast cancer in patients who are at increased cardiac risk. Other approved indications include treatment of advanced ovarian cancer and AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma. Schering-Plough has exclusive international marketing rights to CAELYX, except in Japan and Israel, through a distribution agreement with ALZA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson.
Prior to the 2003 first quarter, sales of CAELYX were reported in the Other anti-infective/anticancer sales line.
Claritin
Worldwide sales of prescription CLARITIN were $109 million in the 2003 first quarter, versus sales of $659 million in 2002. U.S. sales for prescription CLARITIN recognized in the first quarter of 2003 were $16 million versus U.S. sales of $565 million in the 2002 period. As previously disclosed, the company fully reserved for any U.S. prescription CLARITIN trade inventory existing at year-end 2002. Therefore, reported sales are the difference between trade inventory at year-end 2002 and trade inventory at the end of the 2003 first quarter, reflecting estimated patient demand.
The estimate for patient demand was based on information provided directly to the company from its customers (U.S. wholesalers, chain and retail pharmacies) about existing levels of trade inventories as of March 31, 2003.
International sales of prescription CLARITIN declined 1 percent to $93 million from $94 million in the 2002 first quarter, due to the continued conversion of patients from CLARITIN to CLARINEX, tempered by sales growth in Japan reflecting the September 2002 launch of the product.
Clarinex
Clarinex sales totaled $173 million worldwide in the 2003 first quarter, significantly higher than the $85 million reported in the comparable 2002 period. In the United States, Clarinex has the broadest indications of any prescription nonsedating antihistamine. U.S. sales were $133 million, up 89 percent from $70 million in the 2002 first quarter, reflecting the continued conversion of patients from prescription Claritin to Clarinex. However, the growth was tempered by the decline in the overall prescription antihistamine market resulting primarily from the launch of OTC CLARITIN in December 2002. CLARINEX is experiencing intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. The company is beginning to implement new marketing efforts to address market share performance. International sales of Clarinex were $41 million in the first quarter versus $14 million in 2002, benefiting from new market launches.
Nasonex
First quarter sales of Nasonex Nasal Spray, a once-daily nasal-inhaled steroid for allergies, were $79 million worldwide, a 43 percent decrease versus 2002 sales of $138 million. U.S. sales were $34 million, down 66 percent versus $101 million in 2002, due to trade inventory reductions, coupled with market share declines. NASONEX is also experiencing intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. The company is beginning to implement new marketing efforts to address market share performance. Outside of the United States, sales of Nasonex grew 21 percent to $44 million compared with 2002 sales of $37 million, due to market share gains.
Zetia
Zetia, a novel cholesterol absorption inhibitor, was launched in the United States and several international markets in November 2002. The launch is progressing well in the United States through the company's partnership with Merck, as shown by positive prescription trends (500,000 total prescriptions written through March, according to IMS Health) and market share growth. Worldwide sales of Zetia, as reported to Schering-Plough by the partnership, were $46 million in the 2003 first quarter, with U.S. sales of $41 million. ZETIA is also approved in several countries throughout the world, and recently completed the Mutual Recognition Procedure in the EU, as well as Norway and Iceland.
As previously disclosed, Schering-Plough is reporting its share of profits as "alliance revenue," which is included in net sales. The company's sales force costs are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses, and the company's share of development expenses is reported as research and development expenses. In the 2003 first quarter, alliance revenue was insignificant due to launch-related marketing expenses associated with ZETIA.
Integrilin
Sales of Integrilin Injection, a glycoprotein platelet aggregation inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes, grew 31 percent to $89 million worldwide versus sales of $68 million in the 2002 first quarter, with sales growth reported in the United States. Domestic sales of Integrilin totaled $84 million, up 35 percent compared to sales of $62 million in 2002, due to increased utilization. INTEGRILIN continues to be the U.S. market leader in its class.
Other Product Sales
Worldwide sales of animal health products in the 2003 first quarter decreased 5 percent to $143 million (down 13 percent excluding foreign exchange) compared to sales of $150 million in 2002, due to current manufacturing supply issues.
First quarter sales of Schering-Plough's OTC products were $155 million, significantly higher than 2002 sales of $41 million, driven by OTC CLARITIN sales of $125 million. In November 2002, all five formulations of CLARITIN were approved at their original prescription strengths by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as OTC medicines for the treatment of allergies. Currently, all five formulations are available in the OTC market. Sales of other OTC products declined in the first quarter due to manufacturing issues. Sales of foot care products decreased 13 percent in the first quarter to $66 million versus $76 million in 2002, due to a prior year trade stock-in for the Lotrimin Ultra launch. Sun care product sales of $81 million were flat versus the comparable 2002 period.
First Quarter Costs and Expenses
The gross margin ratio to sales was 68.3 percent in the 2003 first quarter versus 77.4 percent in the 2002 period. Cost of sales as a percentage of sales increased to 31.7 percent in the first quarter compared with 22.6 percent in 2002. The increase was primarily due to a change in product sales mix resulting from the loss of U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN. The increase was also the result of higher manufacturing costs arising from the Company's increased CGMP compliance efforts.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 8 percent to $843 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus $919 million in 2002. The decrease was mostly due to lower spending and comparisons to prior year expenses in the United States associated with the launches of CLARINEX and PEG-INTRON/REBETOL combination therapy, tempered by higher international field force spending to support new product launches. The ratio to sales of 40.6 percent is higher than the 35.9 percent ratio to sales in the prior year, primarily due to lower overall sales reported in the 2003 first
quarter and the promotional and sales support efforts for CLARINEX, the INTRON franchise and ZETIA.
First quarter 2003 research and development spending totaled $344 million, an increase of
13 percent over the $305 million in R&D spending in 2002, primarily due to higher spending in the area of drug development, including clinical trials.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2003 was decreased to 20.0 percent from 23.0 percent in 2002, primarily due to the loss of prescription CLARITIN sales in the United States resulting in the shift of earnings to certain jurisdictions with lower tax rates.
First Quarter Conference Call
Schering-Plough will be conducting a conference call for investors to discuss first quarter results at 9:00 a.m. (EDT). During this call, investor relations will provide an overview of Schering-Plough's financial performance for the quarter and will address inquiries from investors. For the company's second quarter earnings release in July, Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough's chairman and chief executive officer, will lead the conference call and update investors on early action steps. This was previously noted in an April 21 letter to investors posted on the investor relations Web site,
http:/ /ir.schering-plough.com..
A live audio webcast of the conference also will be available to all interested parties
via http:/ /ir.schering-plough.com.. .
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements relating to the company's business prospects. The market viability of the company's marketed and pipeline products are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The company's financial performance is dependent on the market viability of the company's marketed and pipeline products, possible changes in business strategies and the ability to successfully implement those business strategies, and other factors, all of which are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The reader of this release should also understand that the forward-looking statements may also be adversely affected by general market and economic factors, competitive product development, market acceptance of new products, product availability, current and future branded, generic or OTC competition, federal and state regulations and legislation, the regulatory process for new products and indications, existing and new manufact uring issues that may arise, trade buying patterns, patent positions, litigation and investigations and instability or destruction in a geographic area important to us due to reasons such as war or SARS. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 10-Q for the 2003 first quarter, and its Form 8-Ks.
Schering-Plough is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the first quarter ended March 31 (unaudited):
(Amounts in millions, except per share figures)
N/M = Not a meaningful percentage
Excluding exchange, diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2003 decreased 76 percent. The company advises that the trend in earnings per share should be viewed with and without the effects of foreign exchange rates.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the first quarter ended March 31 (unaudited):
Net Sales by Major Product:
N/M - not a meaningful percentage
 
*The Intron franchise includes INTRON A, PEG-INTRON and REBETOL.
NOTE: Additional information about U.S. and international sales for specific products is available by calling the company or visiting the investor relations Web site at http: // ir.schering-plough.com.
31-0503
 

Exhibit 99.2
Last Updated on 4/18/03 By Schering Plough

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
For Release: IMMEDIATELY Contact: Robert J. Consalvo
(908) 298-7409
 
KENILWORTH, N.J., May 13, 2003Carrie Cox has been appointed as executive vice president and president, Global Pharmaceutical Business at Schering-Plough Corporation. She begins her assignment on May 15.
-
Cox's appointment is a major element in the early action steps announced today by Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough's new chairman and chief executive officer, to revitalize the company, which is suffering from declining sales and earnings, and also legal and regulatory issues.
Cox will report to Hassan.
Cox's appointment consolidates Schering-Plough's prescription pharmaceutical business from several autonomous units into a unified global operation. Reporting to Cox will be the current heads of U.S. and international pharmaceuticals, Rich Zahn and Tom Lauda, respectively.
Cox served previously as the executive vice president and president of the Global Prescription Business at Pharmacia Corporation, prior to its merger with Pfizer last month.
Said Hassan: "I am very pleased that we could attract one of the top executives in our industry to Schering-Plough. Carrie will play a key role as we revitalize the company and build long-term growth."
A registered pharmacist, Cox has more than 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
Cox joined Pharmacia's predecessor company, Pharmacia & Upjohn, in 1997 as a member of top management and was a strong contributor to the company's dramatic turnaround.
Previously, Cox served as vice president of Women's Health Care at Wyeth (formerly American Home Products), where she worked for seven years. Prior to that assignment Cox held a variety of positions in market research, sales and product management during a 10-year career with Sandoz Pharmaceuticals.
The Healthcare Businesswomen's Association named Cox Healthcare Businesswoman of the Year in 2001, and she was also named to Fortune Magazine's list of the 50 most powerful women in business.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements concerning, among other things, the future prospects of the company, which the reader of this release should understand are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The company's business prospects may be adversely affected by general market and economic factors, competitive product development, product availability, current and future branded, generic and OTC competition, market acceptance of new products, federal and state regulations and legislation, the regulatory review process in the United States and foreign countries for new products and indications, existing manufacturing issues and new manufacturing issues that may arise, timing of trade buying, patent positions, litigation and investigations, and instability or destruction in a geographic area important to the company due to reasons such as war or SARS. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainti es, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 10-Q being filed with the Commission on May 13, 2003, and 8-Ks.
Schering-Plough is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
# # #
32-0503
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Release: IMMEDIATELY Contact: Robert J. Consalvo
(908) 298-7409
 
KENILWORTH, N.J., May 13, 2003 - Schering-Plough Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Fred Hassan announced today the first steps in an action agenda to stabilize and then turn around the corporation, which has been suffering from declining sales and earnings as well as legal and regulatory challenges.
Seventeen working days after assuming leadership of the organization, Hassan is launching new initiatives in three areas: strategy, structure and process.
Said Hassan, "As I promised when I accepted this challenging assignment, we are moving swiftly to address urgent issues while also taking actions that will build a strong Schering-Plough for the long term. The steps we are announcing today begin to install the strong, globalized management and systems that are required to turn the situation around. These steps also introduce a new focus on cost management, and launch structural changes that will allow us to generate long-term growth." Added Hassan, "These are our first steps. There will be more to come."
Strategically, the corporation's current decentralized operating system is being replaced by a globalized system with strong management.
A key action is the consolidation of several autonomous prescription pharmaceutical business units into a single global business. Effective May 15, Carrie Cox is appointed as the executive vice president and president of the new Global Pharmaceutical Business, reporting to Hassan. Tom Lauda and Rich Zahn, who respectively head international and U.S. prescription pharmaceuticals, will now report to Cox.
Cox served previously as executive vice president and president of the Global Prescription Business at Pharmacia Corporation prior to its merger with Pfizer in April.
Schering-Plough's Animal Health and Consumer Health businesses will now be grouped into a new unit, Global Specialty Operations (GSO). Raul Kohan, president of Animal Health Care, will continue in that role while also leading the new GSO organization, reporting to Hassan. Jim Mackey, the head of Consumer Health Care, will now report to Kohan.
Divisional support functions including finance and human resources will transition from reporting into local business units to reporting into their respective global functions.
Research and Development will also begin steps to further globalize operations.
Manufacturing will also be globalized, but this step will wait until key compliance issues are resolved to avoid any disruption to operations.
Hassan also announced a new focus on cost management that will work to contain or reduce overhead costs while channeling additional investment into key areas for growth, including the field force and product development and acquisition. Cost savings will include reductions in discretionary spending and also selective headcount reductions. These actions will not affect the company's compliance initiatives, particularly with respect to manufacturing.
Further details on these actions will be provided going forward, including during the second quarter conference call scheduled for July 23, 2003, which Hassan will lead. Additional information on today's announcements will be available in an 8-K to be filed today.
"These steps set us on the path to stabilize, repair and then turn around Schering-Plough," said Hassan. "As we have said before, we are not making quick fixes. We are focused on building a solid foundation. I am confident that we will succeed."
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements concerning, among other things, the future prospects of the company, which the reader of this release should understand are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The company's business prospects may be adversely affected by
general market and economic factors, competitive product development, product availability, current and future branded, generic and OTC competition, market acceptance of new products, federal and state regulations and legislation, the regulatory review process in the United States and foreign countries for new products and indications, existing manufacturing issues and new manufacturing issues that may arise, timing of trade buying, patent positions, litigation and investigations, and instability or destruction in a geographic area important to the company due to reasons such as war or SARS. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 10-Q being filed with the Commission on May 13, 2003, and 8-Ks.
Schering-Plough is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
# # #
33-0503
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
May 13, 2003
To All Schering-Plough People Worldwide
Dear Colleagues:
You will recall from my recent communications that I have said we must reinvent our company and embrace positive change in order to succeed.
Over the past two weeks, I have been listening intently to messages and feedback from hundreds of colleagues around the world. I have obtained structured feedback from approximately 100 of our senior managers. I have also received input from many of our other stakeholders, including our shareowners and customers.
Based on this input, I have concluded that we must implement change at a faster pace than I would in a less challenging situation.
As I stated at our Global Town Hall Meeting on April 23, we have two immediate priorities:
1. Manage the legal, quality and compliance issues facing our company.
2. Start working on a long-term Action Agenda to stop the sales and earnings declines
and get us growing again.
Today, we are kicking off our Action Agenda. It can be summarized as New Thinking, New Urgency and New Capabilities. We begin today with the announcement of Early Action Steps to begin to stabilize and then repair our company.
These Early Action Steps consist of strategy, structure, people and process changes. The Action Steps are described in Attachment A, which follows. They are also the subject of press releases that were issued today. You can find the releases on and other intranet sites and electronic bulletin boards. Hard copies are available from your Human Resources department.
S-PeWorld
Additionally, our company will now embark on a Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI).
You heard at the Global Town Hall Meeting about my commitment to a vigorous "Return on Investment" attitude. We are launching VEI at this time because we must move swiftly and effectively to improve our sales and earnings performance, both of which have declined dramatically versus the prior year. VEI will also further embed cost-conscious behavior across the company for the long term.
VEI will work to contain or reduce overhead costs while freeing up resources for customer-facing activities. As part of this initiative, new business controls will be installed to monitor discretionary spending and to dramatically reduce our hiring during this critical time.
We will exempt from these new business controls the hiring of people and the allocation of capital in quality, safety, compliance, the field force, technical services and direct production. Managers in these exempted areas will be required to pre-clear all headcount increases beyond their pre-agreed headcounts.
Now, let me share some comments about the Early Action Steps that are described in more detail in the attachment.
- Our overall is to move from what could be described as a
organizational strategy
"holding company" with "decentralized" business units into a unified global
pharmaceutical company. Once this strategy is fully implemented, we will benefit
from improved shared accountability and transparency, and increasing excellence in
execution. These improvements will allow us to reach the performance level of our
bigger competitors and, ultimately, to exceed their level.
- This change process will also help us become stronger at talent management. Our goal
is to create an environment in which our people learn and develop so that they can
become the best at what they do, compared to their best competitors.
- We are making important upgrades in our and making important initial
structure
decisions on to begin building a strong global competitor. One major action in
people
these areas is to consolidate our core prescription pharmaceuticals business into a
single global operation, reporting to a single member of top management. Other
important early actions on structure and people are described in the attachment.
- We are introducing that will help us improve cross-functional teamwork
processes
and break down artificial boundaries and silos. Our goal is eventually to achieve
industry-leading levels of innovation, speed and flexibility.
Attachment A provides a more detailed announcement on these Early Action Steps.
Attachment B provides responses to some Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
After only 17 working days on the job, I am convinced - more than ever - that we stabilize our company, repair it and then launch a turnaround. This is because I have seen among all of you the will to win.
can
I ask your full engagement in implementing these Early Action Steps - and your engagement in future steps we will take to reinvent our company.
Together, !
we can do it
 
Sincerely,
Fred Hassan
Chairman and CEO
 
 
Strategy, Structure and Processes
A. Strategy
We are moving from what many might describe as a "holding" company with "decentralized" business units to a While the Rx business will be our core business, consumer health care and animal health care are important associated businesses that will benefit from the basic business and science linkages with the core Rx business.
unified global pharmaceutical company.
We are also setting the foundations for a top-tier, cohesive management team. All team members will not only be accountable for results in their own areas, but also they will be expected to behave in a manner that will clearly show their concern for succeeding as an aligned team. In other words, they will be expected to demonstrate shared accountability, collaborative behaviors and to lead by example. A key focus will be building transparency and keeping lines of communication as short and clear as possible.
together
B. Structure and People
1. The SPOC committee is being decommissioned. Instead, three Management Teams, each with its own mission, will be formed. The processes and signing authorities relating to top managers who constituted SPOC membership will continue on an interim basis. The three Management Teams are:
The EMT is where we shall be assembling our first-rate "Team at the Top." The EMT will drive the long-term transformation of our company. The EMT members' primary mission will be to work together to lead in the execution of our action agenda. They will also be held accountable for results in their own assigned functional or business units. Membership in this team will evolve. The EMT will meet every two weeks and will also oversee the Performance Working Group (PWG) that will be constituted to minimize earnings surprises. The initial EMT and PWG members are identified below.
The EMT (Executive Management Team).
The OMT will allow better team building and transparency at the level of divisions and key functions. Membership of the team will be announced in Q3. This group of about 20 to 30 key executives will meet once a quarter with the top management team to discuss quarterly performance and key issues and policies.
The OMT (Operations Management Team).
The GLT will ensure a tight execution and a strong feedback link from senior managers around the world and the top team. The GLT, which will include key country managers, as well as other key global executives driving the company's earnings per share (EPS) growth performance, will be announced in Q3 and meet approximately once per year. It will consist of between 200 and 300 members. All the above actions will help the company execute cohesively and help break down silos.
The GLT (Global Leadership Team).
2. We are creating an integrated . This new
Global Pharmaceutical Business (GPB)
organization consolidates the former separate U.S. and International Rx
businesses.
While no immediate change will occur in the reporting relationship of the country managers, there will be internal mergers of various functions to ensure functional excellence, transparency and good business practice transferability. The new GPB will build a close and cohesive relationship with R&D (especially the "D"), the global supply chain, GSO (Global Specialty Operations) and other global functions. A regional structure will ultimately be developed as we move away from the "Domestic"/"International" split and create a global operation.
Carrie Cox is appointed as the new executive vice president and president, GPB,
effective May 15. Reporting to her will be Tom Lauda and Rich Zahn.
3. Consumer Health Care (CHC) becomes a separate business unit that ultimately
will become global in scope. This unit will have its own management that understands and focuses on the CHC business. Support services will be shared with GPB to avoid building a parallel bureaucracy. Close cooperation between CHC and GPB will be mandated to maximize the total value of the CLARITIN/CLARINEX franchise.
4. CHC and Animal Health Care (AHC) will be overseen by a group head who will also sit on the EMT in order to give these non-Rx businesses a voice in the top management team. This new group will be called Global Specialty Operations (GSO). Raul Kohan will take on the responsibility of Group Head of GSO, while also continuing as President of Animal Health. He will report to Hassan. Jim Mackey, head of CHC, will report to Raul in this group capacity.
5. In order to ensure that Licensing becomes a major contributor to our growth, Licensing activities will be consolidated under a new global unit headed by Dave Poorvin. Dave will report directly to the CEO.
6. Corporate Finance, Corporate HR and Corporate Law will henceforth be known as Global Finance, Global HR and Global Law. For example, Jack Wyszomierski, our chief financial officer (CFO), will be held accountable for developing a global cadre of superior financial talent that will still be accountable for properly servicing the internal customers to whom they are assigned - but who will also be expected to relate on a professional development level to our global cadre of financial managers. This broader expectation will also apply to our global HR and Law colleagues. The internal customers in the Business Units should continue to expect the same high level of support from these functions even though the reporting relationships will be realigned.
Ultimately we will see people in the global support functions reporting on a solid line within their global function, and on a dotted line to their internal customers.
7. It is our intent to globalize our Worldwide Supply Chain. However, we do not want to adversely impact, in any way, the company's present commitment to the cGMP Work Plan. Therefore, this globalization will begin to occur only once it has been determined that we are well on the way to fulfilling our obligations to the FDA.
8. Our Quality Operations and Auditing functions will operate on a global basis to reflect the company's continued commitment in this area.
9. We also plan to fully globalize our R&D. This will include improving global interaction with our R&D in Japan. You will hear more about R&D plans in coming months. No reporting relationships will change in the immediate future.
10. Administrative services are also expected to be run as a global network in due course. As an initial step, administrative services for our New Jersey facilities will report to the new Global HR department.
: Fred Hassan, Chairman and CEO Joe Connors, EVP and General Counsel Carrie Cox, EVP and President, Global Pharmaceutical Business Raul Kohan, Group head, GSO, and head of Animal Health Cecil Pickett, VP and President of SPRI John Ryan, SVP, Human Resources Jack Wyszomierski, EVP and CFO
11. Executive Management Team (EMT) Members
Chair
Steve Chellevold, Senior Vice President, Technical Operations, and Rick Bowles, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Quality Operations, will be functional advisers to the EMT.
: Tom Kelly, VP & Controller Ralph Cabezas, VP Finance, Animal Health Gene Desimone, SVP, Planning and Administration
Performance Working Group (PWG) Members
Chair
Alberto Elli, VP Finance, International Warren Fiori, VP Finance, Research
Tony Genito, VP Finance, Technical Operations and Quality
C. Processes
1. The EMT will function as the steering committee for the corporation for our overall Action Agenda and for the globalization actions we are implementing from today. These initiatives will be reviewed at every EMT meeting. The global function heads are expected to support the implementation of these actions worldwide across our organization and to drive these initiatives within their own functional areas.
2. People selection decisions in support units will be made jointly by the Global Function head and the Business Unit head who utilizes that support. In Finance, for example, the candidate for a country operation will be proposed by the CFO and, if the local country head does not accept the candidate, then the CFO will propose another candidate. This is a better practice than the country manager appointing his or her own finance head.
Additionally, Performance planning, evaluation and compensation decisions on people in global support units will also be made jointly by the Business Unit head and the Global Function Unit head.
3. All incentive plans will require the approval of Global Finance and Global HR to eliminate any perception of conflict of interest.
4. The incentive plans for 2004 will be updated to reflect the company's emphasis on performance as well as the performance is achieved (behaviors). The performance parameters and their weights will also be fine-tuned to reflect the new priorities. The present performance evaluation form will be revised to reflect the new performance and behavior priorities. Further details on the implementation of these changes will be announced.
how
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment B
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's)
Q. Schering-Plough has been successful in the past. Why do we need to change?
A. Even the most successful companies need to reinvent themselves or they eventually stagnate and decline. We must also reinvent ourselves to become a and global competitor. By a process of planned and deliberate change, we will ultimately get out of the present downward performance into the upward performance of increasing sales, increasing investments that lead to more sales.
tough
nimble
Q. What is "downward performance"?
A. A downward performance involves sales declines, leading to cost cuts, which lead to more sales declines. Through New Thinking, New Capabilities and New Urgency, we plan to reverse this and take more control of our destiny.
 
Q. Why move so fast?
A. I have already interacted with many stakeholders, including shareowners, customers, and also our own people. It is clear that shareowners are disturbed by the rapid decline in sales and earnings. And others, including our people, believe there must be rapid change. All these stakeholders expect SGP to take bold, decisive actions within our long-term Action Agenda framework.
Q. Why do we need a superior top management team when we are a midsize company?
A. When one is midsize, one has to be than a first tier company that rests on its reputation and advantages of size. Otherwise, the larger competitor will out-muscle the smaller competitor. That's why we need new thinking, new capabilities and new urgency as we gear up to regain the ground we have been losing.
better
 
Q. You seem to be hiring some people who have worked for you in the past. Are you sure we are benchmarking against the best talent?
A. Benchmarking is something close to my heart - and a word I would like to hear more in our company as we go forward. I take pride in the fact that I got my jobs at Wyeth, Pharmacia & Upjohn and Schering-Plough after full benchmarking tests. People who have worked for me in the past often have proven their talent (including the present CEO's of Novartis and Wyeth). So yes, I will continue to benchmark and, yes, some people will come from ex-Pharmacia since many on that team went through the benchmarking test when they were selected to lead the turnaround there. In ex-Pharmacia, only two out of eight people in top management had previously worked for me, the rest came from heritage Pharmacia companies and from other "big Pharmas." At Schering-Plough we can also expect some changes.
Q. Will the stronger global functions lead to a loss of direct control among the country managers?
A. On the contrary, country managers should be able to gain power because they will be able to access the global power of people pulling together in the same direction. We encourage boundary-less thinking and a global attitude - while at the same time, we still expect country managers to know their local market and to deliver the necessary sales growth, profit contribution growth and new product introductions in their own assigned geographies. The country managers will now have a better opportunity to participate in the transfer of best practices on a basis.
more
global
Q. If the finance or HR persons are no longer solely reporting to the Business Units they serve, how can the Business Unit heads be held accountable?
A. For the same reason that Business Unit heads are accountable even though they may not be directly supervising other global functions (such as Research) on which they rely. Our concept of Shared Accountability envisages developing a cadre of managers who are comfortable working in a large, complex and sophisticated organization, where power is usually gained through competence, persuasion and influence instead of the traditional command and control behaviors.
 
Q. If you are emphasizing "D" in R&D, does that mean scientific excellence will suffer?
A. No. We are a science-based company and want to become the best in scientific knowledge in the areas we compete in. By emphasizing the teamwork between the commercial and the "D" part of R&D, we want to develop the most effective product flow engine in the industry.
 
Q. By emphasizing Licensing, are you saying you don't have faith in our own R&D?
A. Absolutely not. R&D will continue to be very important to our success. R&D's overall success will be based on the quality and quantity of the company's product flow, not whether or not the product came out of our own labs. What is very important is that we have a mindset that we will build strong product flow of important, innovative new medicines that builds on the best of our in-house innovation and the best from other people's labs.
 
Q. Will there be job cuts?
A. Our goal is to further control hiring as the primary means of managing our headcount. However, if we find that we have serious imbalances in our people resources versus our priorities, we will have to consider further actions. I should underscore that my goal for our company is growth, not shrinkage.
 
Q. A focus on costs got our company into our current troubles with regulators. What is different now?
A. First of all, we are not focused on mindless cost cuts - we are really focused on growth. Cost management is one very important tool. Second, we are absolutely committed to business integrity and to investing properly in quality, safety and compliance. I would add that investment in these areas is important, but even more important is having a business integrity mindset at the top of the company and seeing it embedded throughout the company. That is my commitment.
 
Q. When do you think we will reach competitive parity and start to grow again?
A. We have some big challenges but I know we can get there. Each company is different in a turn-around situation. By implementing our Action Agenda and by staying the course, we will know when we are beginning to get there. I am confident our people will start making it happen.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.6
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
--------------------
AGREEMENT, by and between Schering-Plough Corporation, a New Jersey
corporation (the "Company") and Carrie S. Cox (the "Executive"), dated as of the
12th day of May, 2003.
1. EMPLOYMENT PERIOD. The Company agrees to employ the Executive and the
Executive agrees to remain in the employ of the Company, in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this Agreement, for the period (the "Employment Period")
beginning on May 15, 2003 (the "Commencement Date"), and ending as of the close
of business on May 31, 2008; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that unless on or before the
90th day immediately preceding each May 31 on which the Employment Period would
otherwise end, either party delivers to the other party a written notice of its
election to terminate the Employment Period on such May 31, the Employment
Period shall be extended for an additional one-year period commencing on the
June 1 immediately succeeding such May 31 and ending as of the close of business
on the following May 31. In the event a Change of Control (as defined in Section
11(d)) occurs during the Employment Period, the Employment Period shall be a
period of not less than three years commencing on the Change of Control Date (as
defined in Section 11(b)). Notwithstanding anything else herein, the Employment
Period shall end upon the termination of the Executive's employment as provided
in Section 4; and if not previously terminated, the Employment Period shall
terminate in all events at the close of business on October 1, 2022.
2. Duties and Powers of Executive.
------------------------------
(a) POSITION; LOCATION. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be
employed as Executive Vice President, and President, Global Pharmaceuticals, of
the Company, or in such other substantially equivalent position requested by the
Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the "CEO") for which the Executive is
qualified by education, training and experience. The Executive will serve as an
officer of the Company, and will report directly to the CEO. The Executive's
services shall be performed at the Company's present campus in Kenilworth, New
Jersey or, subject to Section 4(c)(ii), any location at which the headquarters
of the Company is hereafter located.
(b) DUTIES. During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation
and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to
devote reasonable attention and time to the business and affairs of the Company
and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the
Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to perform
faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period
it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (i) serve,
with the approval of the CEO (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed), on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (ii)
deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational
institutions, and (iii) manage personal investments, so long as such activities
do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's
responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this
Agreement.
<PAGE>
 
3. Compensation. The Executive shall receive the following
------------
compensation for her services:
(a) SALARY. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be paid a base
salary (the "Base Salary") at an annual rate of not less than $900,000, payable
in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices as in effect from time
to time for its senior executives. From time to time and at least annually, the
CEO shall review and recommend to the Executive Compensation and Organization
Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
"Board") the annual rate of the Base Salary for appropriate upward adjustments
(such rate as in effect from time to time, the "Annual Base Salary"); PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that during a Change of Control Period (as defined in Section 11(c)),
the Annual Base Salary shall be increased at any time and from time to time as
shall be substantially consistent with increases in base salary generally
awarded in the ordinary course of business to other senior executives of the
Company. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any increase thereof
pursuant to this Section 3(a). Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not
serve to limit or reduce any other obligation of the Company under this
Agreement.
(b) INCENTIVE CASH COMPENSATION. For each year during the Employment Period
beginning with 2003, the Executive shall be eligible for cash incentive awards
(each, an "Annual Bonus") under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan or any
successor or replacement plan (collectively, the "Cash Bonus Plans"), in
accordance with the terms thereof; provided, however, that, during the Change of
Control Period, the Executive shall be awarded, for each fiscal year ending
during the Change of Control Period, an Annual Bonus at least equal to the
greater of (i) the highest Annual Bonus (annualized for any fiscal year
consisting of less than twelve full months) earned by the Executive under the
Cash Bonus Plans in respect of the three most recent full fiscal years ending on
or prior to the Change of Control Date, or (ii) the Executive's target Annual
Bonus for the fiscal year during which the Change of Control Date occurs. The
Executive's target Annual Bonus for 2003 shall be 80% of her Base Salary, and
her maximum Annual Bonus for 2003 shall be 200% of the target Annual Bonus;
provided, that in no event shall her actual Annual Bonus for 2003 be less than
80% of the Base Salary paid in 2003. Thereafter, for each year during the
Employment Period, the Executive's target Annual Bonus shall be at least 80% of
her Base Salary and her maximum Annual Bonus shall be at least 200% of the
target Annual Bonus.
(c) EQUITY COMPENSATION.
(i) The Company shall grant to the Executive 100,000 restricted
shares of the Company's common stock (the "Shares"), on the
Commencement Date, in accordance with the form of grant
attached hereto as Exhibit A and which Shares shall be the
subject of a duly filed registration statement (Form S-8),
and options to purchase 450,000 shares of the Company's
common stock (the "Options") on May 14, 2003. Except as
otherwise provided in Sections 3(j), 5(a)(iv), 5(b)(ii),
and Exhibit A, the Shares shall vest on the third
anniversary of the Commencement Date, if the Executive
remains employed by the Company on that anniversary. The
Options shall be granted under the Schering-Plough
Corporation 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2002 Stock
Plan"), effective May 14, 2003, but subject to forfeiture
 
-2-
<PAGE>
 
 
if the Executive fails for any reason to commence
employment hereunder on the Commencement Date. Except as
otherwise provided in Sections 3(j), 5(a)(iv), and
5(b)(ii), the Options (A) shall vest as to 150,000 shares
on May 14, 2004, as to an additional 150,000 shares on May
14, 2005, and as to the remaining 150,000 shares on May 14,
2006, if the Executive remains employed by the Company on
those anniversaries, (B) shall have a term of ten years
(subject to earlier expiration as provided in the 2002
Stock Plan), (C) shall have a per-share exercise price
equal to the fair market value of a Share, as determined
under the 2002 Stock Plan, on May 14, 2003, and (D) shall
otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions as
the stock option grants to other senior executives of the
Company for 2003.
(ii) Notwithstanding Section 3(c)(i), if before the Shares or
the Options are granted there occurs an event resulting in
an adjustment pursuant to Section 11 of the 2002 Stock
Plan, a corresponding adjustment shall be made to the
numbers of shares set forth in Section 3(c)(i). In
addition, any event resulting in an adjustment pursuant to
Section 11 of the 2002 Stock Plan shall result in a
corresponding adjustment to the number of Options that vest
on the dates specified in Section 3(c)(i).
(iii) The Executive shall also receive regular grants of stock
options and/or other equity awards in accordance with the
Company's practices as in effect from time to time during the
Employment Period; provided, however, that no such grants
shall be required to be made to the Executive before January
1, 2004.
(d) INCENTIVE, SAVINGS, AND RETIREMENT PLANS. In addition, the Executive shall
be entitled, during the Employment Period, to participate in all other
incentive, profit sharing, savings and deferred compensation plans, and
retirement plans, practices, policies and programs, that are applicable
generally to other senior executives of the Company, as in effect from time to
time. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is acknowledged that
for purposes of the Schering-Plough Corporation Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan (the "SERP"), the Executive shall accrue years of Service in
E-grade status (as defined in the SERP) beginning on the Commencement Date, and
her accrued benefit under the SERP shall be fully vested at all times.
(e) WELFARE BENEFIT PLANS. During the Employment Period, the Executive and, if
applicable, the Executive's family, shall be eligible for participation in and
shall receive all benefits under welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and
programs provided by the Company (including, without limitation, medical,
prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, employee life, group life,
accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs) to the extent
applicable generally to other senior executives of the Company, as in effect
from time to time.
(f) EXPENSES. The Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement
for all reasonable business expenses incurred by her during the Employment
 
-3-
<PAGE>
 
Period, in accordance with the policies, practices and procedures of the Company
from time to time in effect, commensurate with her position and on a basis at
least comparable to that provided to other senior executives actively employed
by the Company.
(g) FRINGE BENEFITS AND PERQUISITES. During the Employment Period, the Executive
shall be entitled to fringe benefits and perquisites in accordance with the
plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company from time to time in
effect, commensurate with her position and at least comparable to those provided
to other senior executives actively employed by the Company, including, without
limitation, tax and financial planning services. For the Executive's safety and
convenience, such benefits shall include transportation services for personal
travel, subject to reasonable notice and availability; provided, that to the
extent such services would result in imputed income to the Executive in excess
of $25,000 per year under applicable U.S. federal tax law, they shall be subject
to the prior consent of the CEO.
(h) OFFICE AND SUPPORT STAFF. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall
be entitled to an office of a size and with furnishings and other appointments,
and to an exclusive personal secretary of her own choosing, and other assistance
commensurate with her position and at least comparable to those provided to
other senior executives actively employed by the Company.
(i) VACATION AND OTHER ABSENCES. During the Employment Period, the Executive
shall be entitled to paid vacation of at least four weeks per year, and such
other paid absences whether for holidays, illness, personal time or any similar
purposes, in accordance with the plans, policies, programs and practices of the
Company in effect from time to time, commensurate with her position and at least
comparable to those provided to other senior executives actively employed by the
Company.
(j) DURING CHANGE OF CONTROL PERIOD. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, during a Change of Control Period, the incentive, savings and
retirement benefit opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and
special incentive opportunities, to the extent, if any, that such distinction is
applicable) and the other benefits provided to the Executive pursuant to
Sections 3(d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i) shall in no event be less than the
most favorable such opportunities and benefits provided to the Executive by the
Company and its affiliates at any time during the 120-day period immediately
preceding the Change of Control Date. In addition, notwithstanding anything
herein or in the 2002 Stock Plan to the contrary, upon the Change of Control
Date, the Shares and the Options shall immediately vest in full, and the Options
shall otherwise be treated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
2002 Stock Plan.
4. Termination of Employment.
-------------------------
(a) DEATH OR DISABILITY. The Executive's employment shall terminate
automatically upon the Executive's death. Either the Executive or the Company,
upon a determination in good faith that the Disability (as defined below) of the
Executive has occurred, may give written notice in accordance with Section 13(b)
of this Agreement of her or its intention to terminate the Executive's
employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall
terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the
 
-4-
<PAGE>
 
Company or the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to
full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement,
"Disability" shall mean, after reasonable accommodations have been provided to
the Executive, the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the
Company on a full-time basis for six consecutive months as a result of
incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and
permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable
to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative (such agreement as to
acceptability not to be withheld unreasonably).
(b) TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY. The Company may terminate the Executive's
employment for Cause or without Cause, in accordance with Section 4(d) below.
For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean (i) the Executive's willful
and continued neglect of her duties under Section 2 of this Agreement (other
than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness or injury) that
is not remedied within a reasonable period of time after a written demand for
substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or the CEO
which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board or the CEO believes
that the Executive has neglected her duties, (ii) willful misconduct by the
Executive that results, or could reasonably be expected to result, in material
harm to the business or reputation of the Company, or (iii) the Executive's
conviction of (or plea of nolo contendere to) a felony involving moral
turpitude. An act shall be considered "willful" if it is committed without
reasonable belief that such act is in the best interests of the Company.
(c) TERMINATION BY THE EXECUTIVE. The Executive may terminate her employment for
Good Reason or without Good Reason, in accordance with Section 4(d) below. For
the avoidance of doubt, the Executive's voluntary resignation in accordance with
Section 4(d) below shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement. For purposes
of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence of any of the
following without the Executive's consent:
(i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties substantially
inconsistent in any respect with the Executive's position
(including status, offices, titles and reporting
requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as
contemplated by Section 2(a) of this Agreement, or any
other action by the Company which results in a diminution
in such position, authority, duties, or responsibilities or
in the Executive's title, excluding for this purpose an
isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in
bad faith and which is remedied by the Company within 15
days after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(ii) the Company's requiring the Executive (A) at any time
during the Employment Period, to be based at any office or
location that is 35 miles or further from the previous
office or location where the Executive was based, or (B)
during the Change of Control Period, to travel on Company
business to a substantially greater extent than required
prior to the Change of Control Date;
 
-5-
<PAGE>
 
(iii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the
provisions of Section 3 of this Agreement, other than an
isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring
in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly
after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's
employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this
Agreement;
(v) notice by the Company at any time, pursuant to Section 1,
of its election to terminate or otherwise not extend the
Employment Period; or
(vi) any failure by the Company to comply with and satisfy Section
10(c) of this Agreement, provided that the successor has
received at least ten days' prior written notice from the
Company or the Executive of the requirements of Section 10(c)
of this Agreement.
For purposes of this Section 4(c): (I) during the Change of Control Period, any
good faith determination of Good Reason made by the Executive shall be
conclusive and binding on the Company; and (II) the Executive shall be
considered to have consented to an action or failure to act by the Company
described above if she consents to such action or failure to act in writing.
(d) PROCESS FOR TERMINATION. Any termination of the Executive's employment,
other than as a result of her death or Disability, shall be implemented by the
initiating party's giving a Notice of Termination to the other party, in
accordance with Section 13(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement,
a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the
specific termination provision in this Agreement (if any) relied upon, (ii) to
the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and
circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's
employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination
(as defined in Section 4(e)) is other than the date of receipt of such notice,
specifies the Date of Termination (which date shall be not more than thirty days
after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to
set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which
contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of
the Executive or the Company hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company,
respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the
Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
(e) DATE OF TERMINATION. If the Executive's employment is terminated for any
reason other than the Executive's death or Disability, the "Date of Termination"
shall be the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date
specified therein, as the case may be. If the Executive's employment is
terminated by reason of the Executive's death, the "Date of Termination" shall
be the date of death. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of
the Executive's Disability, the "Date of Termination" shall be the Disability
Effective Date.
(f) NOTICES OF NONRENEWAL. If the Company shall deliver to the Executive a
written notice of its election to terminate the Executive's employment at the
end of the Employment Period as provided in the proviso to Section 1, then the
Executive shall have the right to terminate her employment for Good Reason. If
the Executive shall deliver to the
 
-6-
<PAGE>
 
Company such a notice, then her employment shall be deemed to have been
terminated by her without Good Reason upon the expiration of the Employment Period.
5. Obligations of the Company upon Termination.
-------------------------------------------
(a) GOOD REASON OR DURING THE WINDOW PERIOD; OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE, DEATH OR
DISABILITY. If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the
Executive's employment other than for Cause (and other than due to Disability),
the Executive shall terminate her employment for Good Reason at any time, or the
Executive shall terminate her employment for any reason during the 30-day period
(the "Window Period") immediately following the first anniversary of the Change
of Control Date:
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash
within 30 days after the Date of Termination the aggregate of
the following amounts:
(A) the sum of (1) the Executive's Base Salary through the Date
of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid; (2) any
compensation previously deferred by the Executive (together
with any accrued interest or earnings thereon) to the
extent the Executive has elected to accelerate such
compensation on her termination; (3) any accrued vacation
pay; and (4) unreimbursed expenses due the Executive
pursuant to Section 3(f), in each case to the extent not
theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in
clauses (1)-(4) shall be hereinafter referred to as the
"Accrued Obligations");
(B) the product of (1) the greater of (I) the highest Annual
Bonus (annualized for any fiscal year consisting of less
than twelve full months) earned by the Executive under the
Cash Bonus Plans in respect of the three most recent full
fiscal years ending on or prior to the Date of Termination,
or (II) the Executive's target Annual Bonus for the fiscal
year during which the Date of Termination occurs (such
greater amount, the "Highest Annual Bonus") and (2) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in
the fiscal year of such termination through the Date of
Termination, and the denominator of which is 365 (such
fraction, the "Fraction," and such product, the "Pro-Rata
Bonus");
(C) the product of (1) the Multiple (as defined in Section
11(e) below) and (2) the sum of (x) the Executive's Annual
Base Salary (determined without regard to any reduction
constituting Good Reason), (y) the Highest Annual Bonus and
(z) the highest of the amounts contributed on behalf of the
Executive under the Schering Corporation Employee's Profit
Sharing Plan or any successor or replacement plan thereto
and the Schering Corporation Profit Sharing Excess Benefits
Plan or any successor or replacement plan thereto, for each
of the three most recently completed fiscal years preceding
the Date of Termination (and annualized for any fiscal year
consisting of less than twelve full months) or, if no such
 
-7-
<PAGE>
 
contributions have yet been made, the amounts (determined
on an annualized basis) that would have been so contributed
with respect to the year in which the Date of Termination
occurs (the "Highest Profit Sharing Contribution"); and
(D) the product of (I) the Highest Profit Sharing Contribution,
and (II) the Fraction;
(ii) for a number of years from and after the Date of
Termination equal to the Multiple, or such longer period as
any plan, program, practice or policy may provide, the
Company shall continue benefits to the Executive and/or the
Executive's family at least equal to those which would have
been provided to them in accordance with the plans,
programs, practices and policies described in Section 3(e)
of this Agreement if the Executive's employment had not
been terminated, in accordance with the most favorable
plans, practices, programs or policies of the Company as in
effect and applicable generally to other senior executives
of the Company and their families during the 90-day period
immediately preceding the Date of Termination or, if more
favorable to the Executive, as in effect at any time
thereafter or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in
effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to
other senior executives of the Company and their families,
and for purposes of determining eligibility of the
Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans,
practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be
considered to have remained employed for a number of years
after the Date of Termination equal to the Multiple;
provided, however, that if the Executive becomes reemployed
-------- -------
with another employer and is eligible to receive medical or
other welfare benefits under another employer provided
plan, the medical and other welfare benefits described
herein shall be secondary to those provided under such
other plan during such applicable period of eligibility;
and, provided, further, that to the extent that the
-------- -------
Company's plans, programs and arrangements do not permit
such continuation of the Executive's participation
following her termination, the Company shall provide the
Executive, no less frequently than quarterly in advance
with an amount which, after taxes, is sufficient for her to
purchase equivalent benefits (the continuation of welfare
benefits for the applicable period set forth in this
Section 5(a)(ii) shall be hereinafter referred to as
"Welfare Benefit Continuation");
(iii) for purposes of calculating the Executive's benefits (and
benefits due to the Executive's beneficiaries) under the
SERP, the following special rules shall apply: (A) if the
Date of Termination occurs before the Executive's 60th
birthday, the Executive's Benefit (as that term is used in
the SERP) shall in no event be less than 26 percent of her
Average Final Earnings (as defined in the SERP, subject to
clause (B) of this sentence, and provided that if the
Executive has been employed by the Company for fewer than
sixty months, Average Final Earnings shall be based upon
her Earnings
 
-8-
<PAGE>
 
during the period of her employment with the Company), payable
in accordance with the payment provisions of the SERP, but
immediately in a lump sum or in the form of an annuity
commencing immediately, and without reduction for early
payment; and (B) no compensation paid pursuant to this Section
5(a), other than pursuant to Section 5(a)(i)(A)(1) and Section
5(a)(i)(B), shall be taken into account in determining the
Executive's Average Final Earnings;
(iv) notwithstanding any provision of the applicable plans and
agreements to the contrary, the Shares and the Options
shall immediately vest in full and the Executive shall be
treated for purposes of all equity awards (including
without limitation the Shares and the Options) granted to
her by the Company that she holds immediately before the
Date of Termination as if she had incurred a "Termination
of Employment by reason of retirement" within the coverage
of Section 6(f)(i) of the 2002 Stock Plan (if such awards
were granted under the 2002 Stock Plan) or as if she had
retired (if such awards were granted under any other plan);
and
(v) the Company shall timely provide the Executive with any Other
Benefits as provided in Section 6, and fulfill any
indemnification and insurance obligations it may have pursuant
to Section 13(h).
(b) DISABILITY OR DEATH. If the Executive's employment is terminated during the
Employment Period by reason of the Executive's Disability or death:
(i) the Company shall pay the Accrued Obligations and the
Pro-Rata Bonus to the Executive (or, in the event of
termination of employment due to the death of the
Executive, to the Executive's estate or beneficiary) in a
lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of
Termination;
(ii) notwithstanding any provision of the applicable plans and
agreements to the contrary, the Shares and the Options
shall immediately vest in full and the Executive shall be
treated for purposes of all equity awards (including
without limitation the Shares and the Options) granted to
her by the Company that she holds immediately before the
Date of Termination as if she had incurred a "Termination
of Employment by reason of retirement" within the coverage
of Section 6(f)(i) of the 2002 Stock Plan (if such awards
were granted under the 2002 Stock Plan) or as if she had
retired (if such awards were granted under any other plan);
(iii) if the Executive's termination of employment was by reason of
Disability, the Executive shall receive Welfare Benefit
Continuation under the same terms as if her termination of
employment had entitled her to such benefits pursuant to
Section 5(a)(ii); and
(iv) the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive
or to the Executive's legal representatives under this
Agreement other than the
 
-9-
<PAGE>
 
timely payment or provision of Other Benefits, and any
indemnification and insurance obligations pursuant to Section
13(h).
(c) CAUSE; OTHER THAN FOR GOOD REASON. If, during the Employment Period, the
Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause, the Company shall have no
further obligations to the Executive under this Agreement other than the
obligation to pay to the Executive the Accrued Obligations, the timely payment
or provision of Other Benefits, and any indemnification and insurance
obligations pursuant to Section 13(h). If the Executive terminates employment
during the Employment Period, excluding any termination for Good Reason, any
termination during the Window Period for any reason or a termination due to
Disability, the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive,
other than to pay all Accrued Obligations and the Pro-Rata Bonus, the timely
payment or provision of Other Benefits, and any indemnification and insurance
obligations pursuant to Section 13(h). In either such case, the Accrued
Obligations and, if applicable, the Pro-Rata Bonus, shall be paid to the
Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.
(d) RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES. If there shall be any dispute between the Company
and the Executive about (i) in the event of any termination of the Executive's
employment by the Company, whether such termination was for Cause, or (ii) in
the event of any termination by the Executive of her employment, whether such
termination was for Good Reason or, if such termination occurs during the Change
of Control Period, whether the Executive determined in good faith that Good
Reason existed, then, unless and until there is a final, nonappealable judgment
by a court of competent jurisdiction declaring that such termination was for
Cause or that such termination was not for Good Reason or, if such termination
occurs during the Change of Control Period, that such determination of Good
Reason was not made in good faith, the Company shall pay all amounts, and
provide all benefits, to the Executive and/or her family or other beneficiaries,
as the case may be, that the Company would be required to pay or provide
pursuant to Section 5(a) as though such termination were by the Company without
Cause or by the Executive with Good Reason; provided, however, that the Company
shall not be required to pay any disputed amounts pursuant to this Section 5(d)
except upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Executive to repay
all such amounts to which she is ultimately adjudged by such court not to be
entitled.
6. Non-exclusivity of Rights; Other Benefits. Except as provided in
-----------------------------------------
Sections 5(a)(ii), 5(b) and 5(c) of this Agreement and in the last sentence of
this Section 6, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's
continuing or future participation in any plan provided by the Company or any of
its Affiliated Companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall
anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have
under any contract or agreement entered into after the date hereof with the
Company or any of its Affiliated Companies. Amounts which are vested (or earned)
benefits or incentive compensation or which the Executive (or her family) is
otherwise entitled to receive under any plan of, or any contract or agreement
entered into after the date hereof with, the Company or any of its Affiliated
Companies at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in
accordance with such plan, contract or agreement except as explicitly modified
by this Agreement ("Other Benefits"). Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the
Executive's Disability or death during the Employment Period, the Executive
and/or the Executive's legal representatives and beneficiaries shall be entitled
to
 
-10-
<PAGE>
 
receive all disability, death and/or other benefits provided for under the
Company's employee benefit plans in which the Executive was a participant before
such termination (which also are considered "Other Benefits"). Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the term "Other Benefits" shall not include, and in no event
shall the Executive be entitled to receive, any severance pay or severance
benefits under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company or any of
its Affiliated Companies, it being understood and agreed that this Agreement
contains the sole and exclusive provisions for the Executive's severance pay and
severance benefits.
7. No Offset. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided
---------
for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall
not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other
claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or
others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or
take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the
Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and, except as provided
in Section 5(a)(ii) of this Agreement, such amounts shall not be reduced whether
or not the Executive obtains other employment.
8. Certain Additional Payments by the Company.
------------------------------------------
(a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it
shall be determined that any payment (within the meaning of Section 280G of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or any successor
provision) or distribution by the Company or any of the Affiliated Companies to
or for the benefit of the Executive (whether paid or payable or distributed or
distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but
determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section
8) (a "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of
the Code (or any successor provision) or any interest or penalties are incurred
by the Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with
any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the
"Excise Tax"), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional
payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after payment by the
Executive of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect
to such taxes), including, without limitation, all income taxes, employment
taxes and Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains
an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the
Payments. The Company's obligations to make Gross-Up Payments under this Section
8 shall not be conditioned upon the Executive's termination of employment.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 8(c), all determinations required to be
made under this Section 8, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is
required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be
utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a nationally
recognized accounting firm designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable
to the Executive (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting
calculations both to the Company and the Executive within 15 business days of
notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as
is requested by the Company. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall
be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to
this Section 8, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within five days
of the receipt of the Accounting
 
-11-
<PAGE>
 
Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is
payable by the Executive, it shall furnish the Executive with a written opinion
that failure to report the Excise Tax on the Executive's applicable federal income tax return would not result in the imposition of a negligence,
substantial understatement or similar penalty. Any determination by the
Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result
of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of
the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that
Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been
made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 8(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any
Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment
that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.
(c) The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the
Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the
Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as
practicable but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed
in writing of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such
claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive
shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following
the date on which she gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period
ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due).
If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such
period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by
the Company relating to such claim,
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as
the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to
time, including, without limitation, accepting legal
representation with respect to such claim by an attorney
reasonably selected by the Company,
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order
effectively to contest such claim, and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings
relating to such claim; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company
shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
(including additional interest and penalties) incurred in
connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold
the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any
Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties
with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such
representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without
limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section
8(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in
connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may
pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals,
proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing
authority in respect
 
-12-
<PAGE>
 
of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the
Executive to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or to
contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive
agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any
administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction
and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall
determine; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the Company directs the
Executive to pay such Claim and sue for a refund, the Company
shall advance the amount of such payment to the Executive, on
an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the
Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise
Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with
respect thereto) imposed with respect to such advance or with
respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance;
and PROVIDED FURTHER that any extension of the statute of
limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year
of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount
is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested
amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest
shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up
Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive shall be
entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other
issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other
taxing authority.
(d) If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the Company
pursuant to Section 8(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund
with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's
complying with the requirements of Section 8(c)) promptly pay to the Company the
amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after
taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount
advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 8(c), a determination is made that
the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and
the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest
such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such
determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to
be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof,
the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
9. Confidential Information and Competitive Conduct.
------------------------------------------------
(a) The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the
Company all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to
the Company or any of its Affiliated Companies and their respective businesses,
which shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive's
employment by the Company or any of its Affiliated Companies and which shall not
be or become public knowledge or generally known within the pharmaceutical
industry (other than by acts by the Executive or representatives of the
Executive in violation of this Agreement). After termination of the Executive's
employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written
consent of the Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process,
communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other
than to the Executive's attorneys or to the Company and to those designated by
the Company.
 
-13-
<PAGE>
 
(b) During the Noncompetition Period (as defined below), the Executive shall
not, without the prior written consent of the Board (which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld), engage in or become associated with a Competitive
Activity. For purposes of this Section 9(b): (i) the "Noncompetition Period"
means (A) the period during which the Executive is employed by the Company, plus
(B) one year following the termination of such employment only (I) in a
Specified Termination as defined in the last sentence of this Section 9(b), or
(II) if by the Company for Cause; (ii) a "Competitive Activity" means any
venture, enterprise, company, business or endeavor which is in competition with
the Company or any of its Affiliated Companies in fields in which the Company
and its Affiliated Companies have annual sales of more than $10,000,000; and
(iii) the Executive shall be considered to have become "associated with a
Competitive Activity" if the Executive becomes directly or indirectly involved
as an owner, principal, employee, officer, director, independent contractor,
representative, stockholder, financial backer, agent, partner, advisor, lender,
or in any other individual or representative capacity with any individual,
partnership, corporation or other organization that is engaged in a Competitive
Activity. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (x) the Executive may make and retain
investments during the Noncompetition Period which do not constitute a
controlling interest of any entity engaged in a Competitive Activity, if such
investment is made on a passive basis and the Executive does not act as an
employee, officer, director, independent contractor, representative, agent or
advisor with respect to such entity, and so long as the making or retaining of
such investment is not contrary to the best interests of the Company, as
determined in good faith by a majority of the Board (excluding the Executive);
and (y) the Executive shall not be considered to violate this Section 9(b) as a
result of her complying with law or legal process or as a result of her
cooperating with any of her prior employers in connection with litigation
relating to matters in which she was substantially involved, provided that (A)
the Executive does not receive any compensation for such cooperation, other than
reimbursement of her expenses, (B) neither the Company nor any of its Affiliated
Companies is a party adverse to such prior employer in such litigation, and (C)
the Executive notifies the CEO and the General Counsel of the Company before
beginning such cooperation and provides them with any information they may
reasonably request, from time to time, regarding such cooperation. A "Specified
Termination" means a termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive
without Good Reason that occurs before the earlier of a Change of Control or the
second anniversary of the Commencement Date (a "Specified Termination"), but
only if, within fifteen days after the date that the Company receives the
Executive's Notice of Termination, the Company notifies the Executive that it
elects for this Section 9(b) to continue to be applicable and that it agrees to
pay the Executive, within 30 days after the Date of Termination, in addition to
any other amounts or benefits to which she may be entitled under Section 5(c),
the amount determined under Section 5(a)(i)(C) assuming the Multiple equals one,
and to continue providing benefits to the Executive as described in Section
5(a)(ii) assuming the Multiple equals one.
(c) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purpose of the foregoing
covenants is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other confidential
information of the Company; (ii) because of the nature of the business in which
the Company and its Affiliated Companies are engaged and because of the nature
of the confidential information to which the Executive has access, it would be
impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the
Company and its Affiliated Companies in the event the Executive breached any of
the covenants of this Section 9; and (iii) remedies at law (such as monetary
damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Section 9
would be inadequate. The Executive
 
-14-
<PAGE>
 
therefore agrees and consents that if she commits any breach of a covenant under
this Section 9 or threatens to commit any such breach, the Company shall have
the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that
may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and
without the necessity of proof of actual damage. With respect to any provision
of this Section 9 finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unenforceable, the Executive and the Company hereby agree that such court shall
have jurisdiction to reform this Agreement or any provision hereof so that it is
enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the parties agree to
abide by such court's determination. If any of the covenants of this Section 9
are determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such
determination shall not be a bar to or in any way diminish the Company's right
to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction.
(d) It is acknowledged that during the course of her employment with Pharmacia
Corporation ("Pharmacia"), the Executive was granted options (the "Prior
Options") to acquire Pharmacia stock, which have now been converted into options
to acquire stock of Pfizer Inc. ("Pfizer") as a result of the merger of
Pharmacia and Pfizer. The Executive agrees that (1) before the third anniversary
of the Commencement Date, all of the Prior Options shall either be exercised or
shall expire, (2) if the market price of the securities underlying any Prior
Option is, at any time before the third anniversary of the Commencement Date,
greater than twice the exercise price of such Prior Option, then the Executive
shall, as promptly as practicable thereafter, exercise such Prior Option, and
(3) she shall dispose of all securities acquired by exercise of any Prior Option
as promptly as practicable following such exercise. If the Executive complies
with the foregoing provisions of this Section 9(d), then her retention of the
Prior Options shall not be deemed to violate Section 9(b).
(e) In no event shall an asserted violation of the provisions of this Section 9
constitute a basis for deferring or withholding any amount otherwise payable to
the Executive under this Agreement.
10. Successors and Assignability.
----------------------------
(a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written
consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than
by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to
the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives.
(b) No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned
or transferred by the Company except that such rights or obligations may be
assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the
Company is not the continuing entity, or the sale or liquidation of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided that the assignee or
transferee is the successor to all or substantially all of the business and
assets of the Company and such assignee or transferee assumes the liabilities,
obligations and duties of the Company, as contained in this Agreement, either
contractually or as a matter of law. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit
of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
 
-15-
<PAGE>
 
(c) The Company will cause any successor (whether direct or indirect, by
purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the
business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform
this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would
be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this
Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any
successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to
perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
11. Certain Definitions. The following defined terms used in this
-------------------
Agreement shall have the meanings indicated:
(a) "Affiliated Company" of the Company shall mean any company controlled by,
controlling or under common control with the Company.
(b) The "Change of Control Date" shall mean the first date on which a Change of
Control occurs. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a
Change of Control occurs and if the Executive's employment with the Company is
terminated or any event constituting Good Reason occurs prior to the date on
which the Change of Control occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the
Executive that such termination or event (i) was at the request of a third party
who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change of Control or
(ii) otherwise arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change of
Control, then for all purposes of this Agreement the "Change of Control Date"
shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such termination or
cessation.
(c) The "Change of Control Period" shall mean the period commencing on the
Change of Control Date and ending on the third anniversary thereof.
(d) "Change of Control" shall mean:
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within
the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "EXCHANGE
ACT")) (a "PERSON") of beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act)
of securities of the Company where such acquisition causes
such Person to own 20% or more of either (A) the then
outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the
"Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (B) the combined
voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of
the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities");
provided, however, that for purposes of this Section
11(d)(i), the following acquisitions shall not be deemed to
result in a Change of Control: (1) any acquisition
directly from the Company, (2) any acquisition by the
Company, (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan
(or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company
or any corporation controlled by the Company or (4) any
acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction
which complies with clauses (A), (B), and (C) of Section
11(d)(iii); and provided, further, that if any Person's
beneficial ownership of the Outstanding Company
 
-16-
<PAGE>
 
 
Voting Securities reaches or exceeds 20% as a result of a
transaction described in clause (A) or (B) above, and such
Person subsequently acquires beneficial ownership of
additional voting securities of the Company, such
subsequent acquisition shall be treated as an acquisition
that causes such Person to own 20% or more of the
Outstanding Company Voting Securities; or
(ii) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the
Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that any individual becoming a director subsequent
to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a
vote of at least a majority of the directors then
comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as
though such individual were a member of the Incumbent
Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual
whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an
actual or threatened election contest with respect to the
election or removal of directors or other actual or
threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on
behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board; or
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share
exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction
involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or a sale
or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets or stock
of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries
(each, a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless,
following such Business Combination, (A) all or
substantially all of the individuals and entities who were
the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding
Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting
Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock
and the combined voting power of the then outstanding
voting securities entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors, as the case may be, of the
corporation resulting from such Business Combination
(including, without limitation, a corporation which as a
result of such transaction owns the Company or all or
substantially all of the Company's assets either directly
or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the
same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to
such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common
Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the
case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any corporation
resulting from such Business Combination or any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such
corporation resulting from such Business Combination)
beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock
of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination
or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities of such corporation
 
-17-
<PAGE>
 
except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the
Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the
members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting
from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent
Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement,
or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business
Combination; or
(iv) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(e) The "Multiple" shall mean (1) if the Date of Termination is during the
Change of Control Period, three, and (2) otherwise, two.
12. Legal Fees.
----------
(a) The Company shall reimburse the Executive for all legal fees and expenses
which the Executive may reasonably incur in connection with negotiation of this
Agreement, but not in excess of $25,000. If any payment made to the Executive
pursuant to this Section 12(a) results in the Executive being subject to any
federal, state, or local income tax, the Company shall pay to the Executive an
additional amount (the "Additional Amount") such that the net amount that the
Executive receives from payments (including the Additional Amount) pursuant to
this Section 12(a) after paying all applicable federal, state, and local income
and employment taxes thereon (including on the Additional Amount) equals the
amount that she would have received from payments pursuant to this Section 12(a)
if no federal, state, or local income or employment taxes applied to any such
payments.
(b) The Company shall pay the Executive promptly as incurred, to the full extent
permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably
incur (together with interest thereon at the prime rate from time to time
published in The Wall Street Journal, minus one percentage point, for any amount
incurred and not paid within sixty days after Executive's request therefor) as a
result of any contest (regardless of the outcome thereof) by the Company, the
Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under,
any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof
(including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any
payment pursuant to this Agreement), unless the trier of fact in such contest
determines that the Executive's position in such contest was frivolous or not
maintained in good faith; provided, however, that in no event shall the Company
be required to make reimbursements pursuant to this Section 12(b) that exceed
$125,000 in the aggregate, other than for any such contest by the Company unless
the Company prevails as asserted on all material claims forming the basis for
the Company's contest.
13. Miscellaneous.
-------------
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New Jersey, without reference to principles of conflict of
laws. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and
shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended, modified,
repealed, waived, extended or discharged except by an agreement in writing
signed by the party against whom enforcement of such
 
-18-
<PAGE>
 
amendment, modification, repeal, waiver, extension or discharge is sought. No
person, other than pursuant to a resolution of the Board or a committee thereof,
shall have authority on behalf of the Company to agree to amend, modify, repeal,
waive, extend or discharge any provision of this Agreement or anything in reference thereto.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall
be given by hand delivery to the other party, by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by reputable overnight courier,
addressed as follows:
If to the Executive:
-------------------
Carrie S. Cox
c/o Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
If to the Company:
-----------------
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
Attention: General Counsel
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in
writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective
when actually received by the addressee.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall
not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this
Agreement.
(d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such
federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to
any applicable law or regulation.
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance
with any provision hereof or any other provision of this Agreement or the
failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder,
including, without limitation, the right of the Executive to terminate
employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 4(c) of this Agreement, shall not
be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or
right of this Agreement.
(f) When used herein in connection with plans, programs and policies relating to
the Executive, employees, compensation, benefits, perquisites, executive
benefits, services and similar words and phrases, the word "Company" shall be
deemed to include Schering Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company.
 
-19-
<PAGE>
 
(g) This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties, and all
promises, representations, understandings, arrangements and prior agreements are
merged herein and superseded hereby.
(h) The Company shall indemnify the Executive and hold her harmless to the
fullest extent provided under the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
and its Bylaws, and shall maintain one or more policies of officers liability
insurance insuring the Executive, in each case to the fullest extent as
similarly situated statutory officers or former statutory officers of the
Company; provided, however, that for the avoidance of doubt, if at any point no
such policies are in place for the applicable similarly situated individuals,
the Company shall have no obligation to provide any such policies to the
Executive. The obligations of the Company to the Executive under this Section
13(h) shall continue to be valid, binding and enforceable both before and after
the Executive has ceased to be an officer, employee or agent of the Company and
its Affiliated Companies and a director, officer, employee or agent of all other
corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts and other enterprises for
which the Executive served in such capacity at the Company's request for as long
as the Executive may be subject to the claims for which such indemnification
applies.
(i) The Company represents and warrants that (i) it is fully authorized by
action of its Board or a duly authorized committee thereof (and of any other
person, entity or body whose action is required) to enter into this Agreement
and to perform its obligations under it; (ii) the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement by it will not violate any applicable law,
regulation, order, judgment or decree or any agreement, plan or corporate
governance document to which it is a party or by which it is bound; and (iii)
upon the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties, this Agreement
shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it
in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforceability may be
limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the
enforcement of creditors' rights generally. The Executive represents and
warrants that (x) she has the free and unfettered right to enter into this
Agreement and to perform her obligations under it; (y) the execution, delivery
and performance of this Agreement by her will not violate any contract or
agreement to which she is a party or by which she is bound, and (z) upon the
execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties, this Agreement shall be
a valid and binding obligation of the Executive, enforceable against her in
accordance with its terms.
(j) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which together
shall constitute one and the same original.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-20-
<PAGE>
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive and, pursuant to due authorization from
its Board of Directors, the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed as
of the day and year first above written.
 
/s/ Carrie S. Cox
------------------------------------
Carrie S. Cox
 
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
 
 
 
By: /s/ Fred Hassan
-------------------------------
Fred Hassan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-21-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
RESTRICTED SHARES AGREEMENT
 
THIS AGREEMENT, dated as of May 12, 2003, between Schering-Plough
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), and Carrie S. Cox (the
"Executive").
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have entered into an Employment Agreement, dated May 12, 2003 (the "Employment Agreement") (all capitalized terms used in this Agreement but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Employment Agreement");
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 3(c) of the Employment Agreement, the
Company has promised to grant restricted Common Shares of the Company to the
Executive;
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to effectuate such grant, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
1. Grant and Vesting of Restricted Shares.
--------------------------------------
(a) Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Company hereby
grants to the Executive, as of May 15, 2003 (the "Grant Date"), 100,000 of the
Common Shares, par value $.50 per share, of the Company (the "Restricted
Shares").
(b) The Restricted Shares, if not forfeited earlier pursuant to Section 1(c), shall vest upon the first to occur of (i) the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company other than for Cause, (ii) the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company as a result of the death or Disability of the Executive, (iii) the termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive for Good Reason, (iv) the Change of Control Date, and (v) the
third anniversary of the Grant Date.
(c) If the Executive terminates her employment with the Company without Good Reason or the Company terminates the Executive's employment for Cause, in either case before the Restricted Shares vest, the Executive shall forfeit the Restricted Shares, effective on the Date of Termination.
(d) The period from the Grant Date until the Restricted Shares vest or are forfeited, as applicable, is referred to below as the "Restriction Period."
(e) The Company represents and warrants that the grant and issuance of the Restricted Shares have been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company, and that upon the issuance thereof, the Restricted Shares shall be fully paid, validly issued and non-assessable.
 
 
<page>
2. Issuance of Shares.
------------------
The Restricted Shares shall be evidenced by a stock certificate or by book entry, as the Company may determine, in the Executive's name. If the Restricted Shares are evidenced by a stock certificate, then during the Restriction Period, such certificate may be issued to the Executive with such customary legends as the Company may deem appropriate, or held in escrow by the Company on behalf of the Executive. Upon the vesting of the Restricted Shares, the Company shall promptly deliver to the Executive a certificate evidencing the
Restricted Shares, free of all legends, or shall promptly cause any restrictions noted in the book entry to be removed.
3. Nontransferability of the Restricted Shares.
-------------------------------------------
During the Restriction Period, the Restricted Shares shall not be transferable by the Executive by means of sale, assignment, exchange, encumbrance, hypothecation, pledge or otherwise.
4. Changes in Capital.
------------------
If the Common Shares of the Company shall at any time be changed or exchanged by declaration of a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other corporate reorganization in which the Company is the surviving corporation, or if the Company shall pay an extraordinary dividend on its Common Shares, or in the event of a similar corporate event (each, a "Corporate Event"), the number and/or kind of shares represented by the Restricted Shares may be appropriately adjusted, at the discretion of the Company; provided, however, that no adjustment or failure to adjust pursuant to this Section 4 may cause a diminution (measured immediately following such adjustment or failure to adjust) in the market value of the Restricted Shares.
5. Dividends and Distributions.
---------------------------
The Executive shall be entitled to receive all dividends and distributions made with respect to the Restricted Shares, the record dates for which occur during the Restriction Period, and that do not result in an adjustment pursuant to Section 4, in the same form, and at the same time, as holders of the Company's Common Shares generally.
6. Other Rights as a Stockholder.
-----------------------------
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, during the Restriction Period the Executive shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Shares, including without limitation the right to vote the Restricted Shares.
7. Miscellaneous.
-------------
(a) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Restricted Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and accordingly, the Restricted Shares may not be transferred except pursuant to a valid registration statement under the Act and applicable state securities laws or pursuant to an exemption therefrom.
 
-2-
<page>
(b) The Company agrees that:
(i) no later than the six-month anniversary of the issuance of the Restricted Shares (or if earlier, as promptly as is practicable following the vesting of the Restricted Shares), it shall file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and applicable state securities commissioners a registration statement on Form S-8 (or such applicable successor form) under the Act registering the resale of the Restricted Shares;
(ii) the Company will use all reasonable efforts and will cooperate with the SEC in order to cause the SEC to declare the registration statement including the Restricted Shares to be effective within a reasonable period of time after the filing thereof;
(iii) the Company will maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement including the Restricted Shares through (A) if the Restricted Shares vest pursuant to Section 1(b), the first anniversary of the conclusion of the Restriction Period or (B) if the Restricted Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 1(c), the conclusion of the Restriction
Period;
(iv) simultaneously with the filing with the SEC of the registration statement that includes the Restricted Shares, the Company will apply to list the Restricted Shares for trading on the national securities exchange on which the Company's Common Shares are traded; and
(v) the Company will bear all costs of the registration and the listing of the Restricted Shares.
(c) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that notwithstanding the registration of the Restricted Shares with the SEC, the Restricted Shares shall not be transferable during the Restriction Period.
(d) No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Executive for federal income tax purposes with respect to any Restricted Share, the Executive shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required by applicable laws and regulations to be withheld with respect to such amount. To the extent the Executive does not pay to the Company the required withholding taxes with respect to the Restricted Shares, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by law and upon notice to Executive, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the Executive, including by withholding the distribution of some of the Restricted Shares.
(e) The Company agrees to pay any and all original issue taxes and share transfer taxes that may be imposed on the issuance of the Restricted Shares received by the Executive, together with any and all other fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection therewith.
 
-3-
<page>
(f) All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by facsimile, overnight courier, or registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
If to the Executive:
Carrie S. Cox
c/o Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
If to the Company:
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
Attention: General Counsel
 
or to such other address or facsimile number as any party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance with this Section 7(f). Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
(g) Except as otherwise provided hereunder, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company.
(h) The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey without reference to principles of conflict of laws, as applied to contracts executed in and performed wholly within the State of New Jersey.
(i) For purposes of this Agreement, employment with the Company shall include employment with any of the Company's affiliates, predecessors, or successors. This Agreement is not an
employment agreement, and nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon the Executive any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its affiliates, predecessors, or successors, or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any such entities to terminate the Executive's employment at any time.
(j) The invalidity or enforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
(k) This Agreement may not be modified, amended or waived except by
an instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto. The waiver by either party of compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by such party of a provision of this Agreement.
 
-4-
<page>
(l) The headings of paragraphs herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
(m) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which together shall constitute one and the same original.
 
-5-
<page>
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, as of the date first above written, the Company
has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by a duly authorized
officer and the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand.
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
 
 
By: /s/ Fred Hassan
---------------------------------
Fred Hassan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
/s/ Carrie S. Cox
---------------------------------
Carrie S. Cox
 
-6-
 


