FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20030603084332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
FDA Concurs with CGMP Work Plans
     On May 14, 2003 the FDA concurred with Schering-Plough Corporation's CGMP Work Plans relating to the Consent Decree. Additional information about Schering-Plough's CGMP Work Plans and the Consent Decree is included in Schering-Plough's SEC filings, including the first quarter 2003 10-Q.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
99.1 FAQs
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
International Press Releases Available on Investor Relations Web Site
     From time to time, Schering-Plough Corporation issues press releases outside the United States regarding drugs or drug uses that are approved in other countries but not in the United States. Our regulatory counsel has advised us that we may not issue these press releases in the United States due to United States Food and Drug Administration regulations. However, our pharmaceutical business is a global business and these press releases are often of interest to our investors and sometimes may contain information that an investor would find relevant to his or her investment decisions about Schering-Plough securities. In order to make the information available to our investors without issuing the press releases in the United States, we will post these press releases on our Investor Relations Web Site (at http://ir.schering-plough.com) in the press releases section. Investors who wish to receive notifications of the posting of all press releases (including press releases that are not issued in the United States) as they are posted on our Investor Relations Web Site may sign up for the e-mail alert service  the process to do this is explained on our Investor Relations Web Site.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
     Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K are questions we are frequently asked by investors and others interested in Schering-Plough along with our answers. We will post the questions and our answers on our Investor Relations Web site in the FAQs section later today.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
By: Thomas H. Kelly Vice President and Controller
/s/ Thomas H. Kelly
Date: June 3, 2003
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index
The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
99.1 FAQs

 
Exhibit 99.1
From time to time, Investor Relations will provide FAQs on various topics of interest to investors. The following is a compilation of frequently asked questions.
 
 
 


