FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20031022064721.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
2003 Third Quarter Earnings Press Release
Schering-Plough issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for 2003 Third Quarter" on October 22, 2003, and the press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. Schering-Plough also issued related Supplemental Data, which is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
The press release contains many important facts that investors may wish to consider, together with information in Schering-Plough's 2002 10-K, 2003 first and second quarter 10-Qs and 8-Ks filed during 2003. These facts include financial results for the 2003 third quarter, performance of certain key products, the status of the previously announced Action Agenda and Value Enhancement Initiative, an increase in the litigation reserves, a change in the estimated 2003 annual effective tax rate, and information about how to dial-in to, or access the Webcast of, the 2003 third quarter earnings conference call scheduled for October 22, 2003 at 8:30 am.
 
Earnings Outlook Remains Unchanged
In the August 21, 2003 press release titled "Schering-Plough CEO Fred Hassan Completes First 100 Days, '360 Degree Review'" and in our October 9, 2003, Investor Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), we provided an earnings outlook for the second half of 2003 and 2004. We said that, due to the downward slopes in sales and market share of key profit-generating products, earnings per share (EPS) in the second half of 2003 are likely to be lower than the level registered in the first half of 2003, and,also, EPS in 2004 are likely to be lower than the EPS level for 2003. (All comparisons exclude any possible charges for unusual items.)
Schering-Plough reiterates that earnings outlook today. Also, as mentioned in the October 9 FAQs, Schering-Plough does not expect to issue revised earnings guidance during 2003, and Schering-Plough continues to believe investors should consider Schering-Plough's prospects after its product portfolio transition, which should become increasingly evident beginning in 2005.
Sales and market share of key products, including those in the allergy and hepatitis C markets, and some information about the future product portfolio, such as the ZETIA/simvastatin combination, are discussed in the press release.
 
Disclosure Notice
Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995).
This 8-K, including each Exhibit, the comments of Schering-Plough officers during our earnings conference October 22, 2003 at 8:30 am, and other written and oral statements made from time to time by Schering-Plough may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. They use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "project," "intend," "plan," "potential," "will," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance. You can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, prospective products, the status of product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, development programs, expenses and our programs to reduce expenses, the number of employees accepting Schering-Plough's planned voluntary early retirement program and the cost of and savings from that program, the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations, growth strategy and financial results.
Any or all of our forward-looking statements here or in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Our actual results may vary materially, and there are no guarantees about the performance of Schering-Plough stock. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
You should carefully consider any forward-looking statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following:
A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors.
Competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors, patents granted to competitors, new products of competitors coming to the market, new indications for competitive products or generic prescription or OTC competition as Schering-Plough's products mature and patents expire on products.
Increased pricing pressure both in the United States and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs. In the United States, among other developments, consolidation among customers may increase pricing pressures and may result in various customers having greater influence over prescription decisions through formulary decisions and other policies.
Government laws and regulations (and changes in laws and regulations) affecting domestic and international operations including healthcare reform initiatives and Medicare drug benefit and drug importation legislation in the United States at the state and federal level and in other countries, as well as laws and regulations relating to trade, antitrust, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price controls and possible nationalization.
Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes are not unusual. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively impact sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies.
Uncertainties of the FDA approval process and the regulatory approval and review processes in other countries, including, without limitation, delays in approval of new products.
Failure to meet Good Manufacturing Practices established by the FDA and other governmental authorities can result in delays in the approval of products, release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. The resolution of manufacturing issues with the FDA discussed in Schering-Plough's 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties, including the timing, scope and duration of a resolution of the manufacturing issues, will depend on the ability of Schering-Plough to assure the FDA of the quality and reliability of its manufacturing systems and controls, and the extent of remedial and prospective obligations undertaken by Schering-Plough.
Difficulties in product development. Pharmaceutical product development is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons. They may be found to be ineffective or to have harmful side effects in clinical or pre-clinical testing, they may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, they may turn out not to be economically feasible because of manufacturing costs or other factors or they may be precluded from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others.
Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to recalls, withdrawals or declining sales.
Major products such as CLARITIN, CLARINEX, INTRON A, PEG-INTRON, REBETOL Capsules and NASONEX accounted for a material portion of Schering-Plough's 2002 revenues. If any major product were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, OTC availability (as has been disclosed for CLARITIN and its current and potential OTC competition), previously unknown side effects; if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced; or if the product is discontinued for any reason, the impact on revenues could be significant. Further such information about important new products, such as ZETIA, or important products in our pipeline, may impact future revenues.
Unfavorable outcomes of government investigations, litigation about product pricing, product liability claims, other litigation and environmental concerns could preclude commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products, materially and adversely impact Schering-Plough's financial condition and results of operations, or contain conditions that impact business operations, such as exclusion from government reimbursement programs.
Economic factors over which Schering-Plough has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
Instability, disruption or destruction in a geographic region important to us - due to the location of our manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers - regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm, or disease such as SARS.
Changes in tax laws including changes related to taxation of foreign earnings.
Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that would require a significant change to Schering-Plough's accounting practices.
For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see Schering-Plough's past and future Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for 2003 Third Quarter"
99.2 Supplemental Financial Data
 
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Schering-Plough today issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for 2003 Third Quarter" and provided additional supplemental financial data. The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The supplemental financial data is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
 
 
 
By: /s/Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Date: October 22, 2003
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for 2003 Third Quarter"
99.2 Supplemental Financial Data
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
FOR RELEASE: IMMEDIATELY Investor Contacts:Geraldine U. Foster
Lisa W. DeBerardine
(908) 298-7436
Media Contact: Denise K. Foy
(908) 298-7616
SCHERING-PLOUGH REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2003 THIRD QUARTER
KENILWORTH, N.J., October 22, 2003 - Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2003. The results reflect the convergence of severe challenges and issues that the company had previously identified and about which it had cautioned in its communications with investors.
"We have inherited a combination of extremely difficult issues that we now own and are working hard to fix," said Fred Hassan, chairman and chief executive officer, commenting after completing his first full quarter since joining the company in April 2003. "We are working hard to address these issues and to build a new Schering-Plough that produces growth while remaining committed to business integrity, quality and compliance."
The company continues to face difficult comparisons with prior financial periods when it was the clear market leader in the allergy and hepatitis C markets, positions that have eroded as a result of the patent expiration of its key prescription allergy product and the introduction of new competition for its hepatitis C franchise. The 2003 quarter is also being compared against a period in 2002 when the hepatitis C franchise was benefiting from increased product demand following approval of its
PEG-INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy. Results for the hepatitis C franchise in the 2003 third quarter reflect declining product demand, increased competition and resulting efforts to lower trade inventory levels in anticipation of expected generic competition for REBETOL.
Hassan reminded investors that, "Due to the acute challenges, uncertainties and volatilities facing Schering-Plough, following my arrival at the company we withdrew numerical EPS guidance." He added, "We are now working hard on the repair and stabilization phase of our five-point Action Agenda. The management team is also working hard at reducing costs via our Value Enhancement
Initiative (VEI)."
Hassan continued, "Through aggressive measures aimed at building field force strength and effectiveness, we are becoming more confident that the declining market share slopes for most of our important profit-generating products can be stabilized, and ultimately reversed."
The company had previously advised that it remained confident that a turnaround would be achieved and that it would not be a "quick fix," but rather a long haul process because of the severity of the problems. Due to the ongoing transition in its product portfolio, the company believes that its intrinsic value can best be gauged by what happens in 2005 and beyond.
For the 2003 third quarter, Schering-Plough reported a net loss of $265 million or 18 cents per share, versus net income of $429 million and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of 29 cents per share in the 2002 period. The loss reflects the addition of $350 million to the company's litigation reserves relating to the previously reported investigations by the U.S. Attorney's Offices for the District of Massachusetts and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania into the company's marketing, sales and clinical trial practices. This increase in reserves reflects maturing discussions with those offices, particularly with the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. This adjustment is consistent with the company's policy of reviewing regularly the status of pending actions and investigations and making adjustments as appropriate. The company said that this increase in reserves represents an adjustment to the company's estimate of the minimum liability relating to those investigations. The company noted that its tota l reserves reflect an estimate and any final settlement or adjudication of any of these matters could possibly be less than or could materially exceed the aggregate liability accrued by the company and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition of the company.
Sales in the 2003 third quarter of $2.0 billion were down 16 percent versus the 2002 period, reflecting difficult sales comparisons with the 2002 quarter and the loss of U.S. sales and profits of the CLARITIN prescription franchise, with sales down $306 million. Also contributing to lower third quarter sales was a 60 percent sales decline to $171 million in the company's U.S. INTRON franchise, primarily as a result of new competition in the hepatitis C market and difficult comparisons due to declining demand and the reduction of trade inventories in anticipation of U.S. generic competition for REBETOL. REBETOL recorded 2002 full-year sales of $865 million in the United States.
The company continued to see positive results outside of the United States, with sales of REMICADE up 54 percent to $142 million; CAELYX, up 56 percent to $30 million; CLARINEX, up 30 percent to $41 million; and TEMODAR, up 28 percent to $44 million.
Alliance revenue from ZETIA was $43 million for the third quarter, with global sales of $137 million for the quarter and $306 million year to date.
The gross margin ratio to sales decreased to 68.1 percent for the quarter, primarily due to a change in product sales mix to products with higher manufacturing costs and increased spending for the company's current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) compliance efforts.
The company's selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $873 million, essentially unchanged, reflecting the impact of currency and promotional spending for OTC CLARITIN. While the VEI savings will create better comparisons in the overhead costs in 2004 and 2005, the company also expects to invest more in sales and marketing to protect its U.S. market shares and to support product launches, particularly the promising ZETIA/simvastatin cholesterol-lowering product in development.
Research and development spending for the quarter totaled $401 million, up 13 percent, reflecting ongoing investment in the development of ZETIA as well as comparisons to lower spending levels in the 2002 third quarter. The ZETIA/simvastatin combination product filing remains on track. Going forward, the company said there will be VEI savings realized in the R&D line, but these are expected to be offset by expenditures on ZETIA, the development of the ZETIA/simvastatin product and the improving early pipeline.
The continued emphasis on compliance in all key functions is impacting the overall cost structure of the company.
Other, net includes the $350 million provision to increase the litigation reserves, higher net interest expense and provisions for asset impairment charges.
In the 2003 third quarter, the company reduced its estimate of the 2003 annual effective tax rate to 15 percent from 20 percent on income, excluding the provision to increase litigation reserves, which is not tax deductible. Due to the decrease in profits, primarily in the United States, the company now estimates its annual effective tax rate to be approximately 15 percent. Therefore, the negative tax provision recognized in the third quarter is the amount necessary to make the cumulative taxes accrued in the first nine months equal to 15 percent.
Schering-Plough will conduct a conference call at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) today to review these results and respond to investor inquiries. Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough's chairman and CEO, and other selected members of management will participate in the conference call.
To listen live to the call, dial 1-706-634-5003. A replay of the call will be available starting at approximately noon on Oct. 22 through 5 p.m. on Oct. 29. To listen to the replay, dial 1-706-645-9291 and enter the conference ID # 7195924.
A live audio webcast of the conference also will be available to all interested parties via http://ir.schering-plough.com. Those wishing to listen live to the conference call should go to the Web site and select "Presentations/Webcasts" from the menu bar. The webcast is also accessible via the Schering-Plough corporate Web site, www.schering-plough.com, by clicking on the "View Webcasts" link.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements relating to the company's business prospects, earnings outlook, investigation outlook and turnaround goals. The market viability of the company's marketed and pipeline products is subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The adjustments of the company's litigation reserves are based on the company's current understanding of the investigations and its estimate of possible outcomes, which may change from time to time. The reader of this release should understand that any settlement or adjudication of the investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings involving the imposition of substantial fines materially in excess of the amounts accrued, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies resulting from exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and furthermore that such resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, could have a materi al adverse effect on the company's results of operations or financial condition. The company's financial performance is dependent on the market viability of the company's marketed and pipeline products, possible changes in business strategies and the ability to successfully implement those business strategies, and other factors, all of which are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. The reader of this release should also understand that the forward-looking statements may also be adversely affected by general market and economic factors, competitive product development, market acceptance of new products, product availability, current and future branded, generic or OTC competition, federal and state regulations and legislation, the regulatory process for new products and indications, existing and new manufacturing issues that may arise, trade buying patterns, patent positions, litigation and investigations and instability or destruction in a geographic area important to the company due to reasons s uch as war or SARS. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 10-Q for the 2003 second quarter, and its Form 8-K filed today.
Schering-Plough is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30 (unaudited):
(Amounts in millions, except per share figures)
N/M - Not a meaningful percentage
 
1/ In the third quarter of 2003, the company reduced its estimate of the 2003 annual effective tax rate to 15% from 20% on income excluding the non-tax deductible provision to increase litigation reserves.
Exchange had no impact on diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2003. Diluted earnings per share for the first nine months of 2003 reflects a favorable exchange impact of 4 percent. The company advises that the trend in earnings per share should be viewed with and without the effects of foreign exchange rates.
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30 (unaudited):
Net Sales by Major Product:
N/M - not a meaningful percentage
*The Intron franchise includes INTRON A, PEG-INTRON and REBETOL.
NOTE: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Additional information about U.S. and international sales for specific products is available by calling the company or visiting the investor relations Web site at http://ir.schering-plough.com.
83-1003

Exhibit 99.2
Last Updated on 10/21/2003 By Schering-Plough


