FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20030207170202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
Licensing Agreement With Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals Resolving U.S. Ribavirin Patent Dispute.
Schering-Plough today issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough In
" The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
Licensing Agreement With Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals Resolving U.S. Ribavirin Patent Dispute
99.1 Press Release Dated February 7, 2003 Titled "Schering-Plough In
"
99.2 Q&A On Three Rivers Ribavirin Patent Agreement
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Schering-Plough expects to receive and answer questions from investors and the media about the matters reported in the press release. Attached as Exhibit 99.2 is a list of anticipated questions and answers.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Date: February 7, 2003
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are filed with this 8-K:
Licensing Agreement With Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals Resolving U.S. Ribavirin Patent Dispute
99.1 Press Release Dated February 7, 2003 Titled "Schering-Plough In
"
Q&A On Three Rivers Ribavirin Patent Agreement
99.2
 

Exhibit 99.1
Schering-Plough
News Release
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
For Release: IMMEDIATELY Contact: Robert J. Consalvo
(908) 298-7409
KENILWORTH, N.J., Feb. 7, 2003 - Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today announced that it has entered into a licensing agreement with Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC., that will settle all patent litigation between the two companies regarding Schering-Plough's U.S. patents relating to ribavirin and its use in treating hepatitis C. No other products are involved.
Three Rivers has an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) currently pending with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that seeks approval to market a generic ribavirin product. Schering-Plough markets ribavirin, USP capsules under the brand name REBETOL.
Under terms of the agreement, Schering-Plough will grant to Three Rivers a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to its U.S. ribavirin patents. Three Rivers will pay to Schering-Plough a royalty on its ribavirin sales. The agreement does not affect Three Rivers' reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc.
Financial terms of the agreement are not being disclosed. The agreement is subject to the courts' dismissal of the relevant lawsuits.
Schering-Plough also reported that patent litigation with Geneva Pharmaceuticals Technology Corporation and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. relative to Schering-Plough's U.S. ribavirin patents has been temporarily stayed while the parties seek to reach a settlement. Geneva and Teva each have an ANDA currently pending with FDA seeking approval to market a generic ribavirin product.
Schering-Plough in 2002 recorded U.S. REBETOL sales of $865 million as reported in its Jan. 23, 2003, earnings release. The company has reported in previous public documents that generic ribavirin competition in the United States could occur in 2003.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements concerning, among other things, the resolution of the patent litigation between the company and Three Rivers. The reader of this release should understand that there are no assurances that the courts will dismiss the patent litigation with Three Rivers, or that the company
will resolve its litigation with Geneva and Teva. Further, the business prospects for REBETOL may be adversely affected by general market factors, competitive product development, product availability, current and future branded and generic competition, federal and state regulations and legislation, the regulatory review process for new products and indications, existing manufacturing issues and new manufacturing issues that may arise, timing of trade buying and patent positions. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 2001 annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Schering-Plough is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
 
 
11-0203

Exhibit 99.2
2/7/03
 
 
1. Why did Schering-Plough enter into this agreement? Why not defend your patents in court? Does this mean your ribavirin patents are weak? Etc. Schering-Plough had determined that entering into the agreement would be in the best interests of the company.
2. But why give generic ribavirin entry into the U.S. market? This licensing agreement with Three Rivers does in and of itself provide entry into the U.S. ribavirin market. As Three Rivers has reported, it must first resolve its ribavirin patent litigation with Ribapharm Inc. and receive FDA approval of its ANDA before it can market a generic ribavirin product.
not
3. What is the status of Three Rivers' ANDA? Of their patent litigation with Ribapharm? These questions are best directed to Three Rivers. While Schering-Plough does not comment on other companies' regulatory or legal matters, Three Rivers has publicly reported that they do not have tentative approval of their ribavirin ANDA from FDA. Three Rivers also has publicly reported that their patent litigation with Ribapharm is ongoing.
4. How does Par Pharmaceutical fit in to this agreement? Did Par receive a ribavirin license too? No. Par Pharmaceutical did not receive a license to Schering-Plough's U.S. ribavirin patents. Par has publicly reported that it has an agreement with Three Rivers to market and distribute Three Rivers' generic ribavirin product.
5. What patents are covered by this licensing agreement? Does this agreement include rights to Schering-Plough's patents covering ribavirin in combination with interferon or peginterferon? The licensing agreement includes all of Schering-Plough's U.S. patents relating to ribavirin and its use in treating hepatitis C, including its use in combination with interferon or peginterferon.
6. Does this agreement include rights to Schering-Plough's ribavirin patents outside the United States? No. This licensing agreement only includes Schering-Plough's U.S. ribavirin patents.
7. Does Three Rivers receive a license to use the REBETOL brand name? No.
8. Does Three Rivers receive a license to make or sell REBETRON, INTRON A or PEG-INTRON. To use these brand names? No. No product other than generic ribavirin is involved in this licensing agreement.
9. Will this agreement allow Three Rivers to sublicense ribavirin rights to other companies? No. The license granted under this agreement is a non-exclusive and non-sublicensable license to Schering-Plough's U.S. ribavirin patents.
10. Does this agreement change your ribavirin licensing agreement with ICN/Ribapharm? Change the royalties you pay to ICN/Ribapharm? No. This patent agreement does not affect Schering-Plough's ribavirin licensing agreement with Ribapharm.
11. What is the status of your ribavirin patent litigation with Geneva and Teva? What is the status of their ANDAs for generic ribavirin? Patent litigation with Geneva Pharmaceuticals and Teva Pharmaceuticals relative to Schering-Plough's U.S. ribavirin patents has been temporarily stayed while the parties seek to reach a settlement. Geneva and Teva each have an ANDA currently pending with FDA seeking approval to market a generic ribavirin product.
12. Are you seeking a similar royalty-bearing agreement with Geneva and Teva? What terms are you negotiating? How close are you? What is the timeframe for getting this done? The companies are seeking to reach a settlement.
13. Have any other companies filed an ANDA with FDA for generic ribavirin? We are not aware of any ANDAs for generic ribavirin other than those filed by Three Rivers, Geneva and Teva.
14. What will the launch of a generic ribavirin product do to your REBETOL sales? Your Earnings? The company has reported in previous public documents that generic ribavirin competition in the United States could occur in 2003. The company in an Oct. 3, 2002, press release reported that earnings in 2003 could be negatively affected by generic ribavirin competition in the United States.
15. What about in Europe? In Japan? Does REBETOL (ribavirin) have patent protection outside the United States? In the Europe Union (EU), under provisions of EU law, REBETOL has data exclusivity for a period of 10 years from the date of EU marketing authorization (May 7, 1999). In Japan, as a result of MHLW approval, REBETOL obtained data exclusivity in Japan for a period of six years from the date of approval (Nov. 21, 2001).
16. What are REBETOL sales in Europe? In Japan? Schering-Plough reports REBETOL sales in Europe and Japan in the same manner as sales of the product are reported for other countries where it is marketed separately - as part of the combined line for the INTRON franchise (INTRON A/PEG-INTRON/REBETRON/REBETOL). In 2002, total combined sales of the INTRON franchise were $2.7 billion worldwide, with $1.7 billion in the U.S. and $1.0 billion internationally.
 
17. What is the U.S. price of REBETOL? REBETOL Capsules are packaged in bottles containing either 42, 56, 70 or 84 capsules each:
18. What is the U.S. price of PEG-INTRON? PEG-INTRON is available in four vial sizes:


