FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20031217195651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
Standard & Poor's (S&P) issued a press release December 17, 2003 titled "S&P Schering-Plough Ratings Lowered; Off Watch Neg". The press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
This ratings action does not result in any impact under the ratings triggers in two of Schering-Plough's arrangements for managing cash flows between its U.S. subsidiaries and its non-U.S.-based subsidiaries. For a discussion of the ratings triggers, see Schering-Plough's third quarter 2003 10-Q, under the heading "Credit Ratings Triggers" in the discussion of "Liquidity and financial resources - nine months ended September 30, 2003" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press Release issued by Standard & Poor's December 17 , 2003 titled "S&P Schering-Plough Ratings Lowered; Off Watch Neg".
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
In September, Merck/Schering-Plough Pharmaceuticals, a joint venture between Merck & Co., Inc., and Schering-Plough Corporation, submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) for an ezetimibe/simvastatin tablet to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In November, the FDA accepted the NDA filing. The investigational cholesterol-lowering medicine is being developed for the reduction of elevated cholesterol levels (hypercholesterolemia).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
 
 
 
By_____
:_/s/ Thomas H.Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Date: December 17, 2003
Exhibit Index
The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press Release issued by Standard & Poor's December 17, 2003 titled "S&P Schering-Plough Ratings Lowered; Off Watch Neg".

Exhibit 99.1
S&P Schering-Plough Ratings Lowered; Off Watch Neg
Source: Standard & Poor's CreditWire / Corporate Finance
Date: December 17, 2003
NEW YORK (Standard & Poor's) Dec. 17, 2003-Standard & Poor's Ratings Services
said today that it lowered its corporate credit and long-term debt ratings on
Schering-Plough Corp. to 'A' from 'A+'. The ratings were also removed from
CreditWatch, where they were placed Nov. 10, 2003, a reflection of Standard &
Poor's increasing doubt that the company could restore its business profile to
one consistent with an 'A+' rating.
The outlook is negative.
"The action reflects the steady erosion of Schering-Plough's earnings
prospects, namely the significant loss of market share for its key franchise,
the hepatitis C treatment PEG-Intron," said Standard & Poor's credit analyst
Arthur Wong. "The downgrade also reflects continued expected declines in
earnings and cash flows."
The still firmly investment-grade ratings on Kenilworth, N.J.-based
Schering-Plough reflect the company's strong position in the highly profitable
pharmaceutical business, given its diverse drug portfolio, the promise of the
recently launched cholesterol drug Zetia, and its very conservative financial
profile. These factors are partially offset by the weakening of PEG-Intron, the
company's leading franchise, as well as an expected continued decline in
earnings and cash flows, and continued struggles to comply with FDA
manufacturing requirements.
Despite the loss of sales of longtime mainstay allergy drug Claritin after its
U.S. patent expiration in late 2002, Schering-Plough continues to maintain a
solid and diverse portfolio that features major products PEG-Intron, Clarinex,
Remicade, Integrilin, and Zetia.
Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect,
Standard & Poor's Web-based credit analysis system, at www.ratingsdirect.com
All ratings affected by this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's
public Web site at www.standardandpoors.com; under Credit Ratings in the left
navigation bar, select Credit Ratings Actions.
Contact: Arthur Wong, New York (1) 212-438-7870
CUSIP: 806605 80660A 80660B
Copyright (c) 2003, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services
Copyright (c) 2003 Standard & Poor's


