FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20031105101254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
99.1 Press release titled "Schering-Plough Appoints Robert Bertolini Chief Financial Officer"
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Schering-Plough today announced that Robert J. Bertolini has been appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective November 17, 2003, and that Jack L. Wyszomierski who currently holds the position will leave the company after a transition period. The press release regarding this matter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
 
 
 
By:/s/Thomas H. Kelly
Thomas H. Kelly
Vice President and Controller
Date: November 5, 2003
Exhibit Index
The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K:
 
99. 1 Press release titled "Schering-Plough Appoints Robert Bertolini Chief Financial Officer"
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Schering-Plough Corporation
2000 Galloping Hill Road
Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
For Release: IMMEDIATELY Contact: Robert J. Consalvo
(908) 298-7409
KENILWORTH, N.J., Nov. 5, 2003 - Schering-Plough Corporation today announced the appointment of Robert J. Bertolini as executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective November 17.
Bertolini, 41, previously the lead partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers' Global Pharmaceutical Industry Group, will report to Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough chairman and chief executive officer, and serve on the company's Executive Management Team. Bertolini succeeds Jack L. Wyszomierski, who is leaving the company after a transition period to pursue other interests.
"Bob's appointment is another important step in the implementation of our Action Agenda to drive a turnaround and transform Schering-Plough," said Hassan. "Bob has broad and deep experience in our industry and a fine track record working with the leaders of business units to improve overall company performance. He will be building a dynamic global finance team that will play an important role in the transformation of Schering-Plough into a successful global competitor."
In his previous role at PricewaterhouseCoopers, Bertolini managed a global organization of 1,500 professionals and 150 partners serving the pharmaceutical industry and other health-related industries. He has extensive experience in audit, financial controls and corporate governance as well as in acting as a senior adviser to top management on financial and general business issues, including licensing and M&A transactions.
Bertolini began his professional career at the former Coopers & Lybrand in 1983 and rose steadily through the company's professional ranks, serving blue-chip global clients in the pharmaceutical industry.
Bertolini graduated with a B.A. in economics from Rutgers University. He is a Certified Public Accountant.
Wyszomierski joined Schering-Plough in 1982. He was named executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1996.
"We thank Jack for his significant contributions over the years and wish him success," Hassan said.
Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) is a research-based company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products worldwide.
94-1103
 
 


