FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20041202155852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DECEMBER 2, 2004 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) NEW JERSEY (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-6571 (Commission File Number) 22-1918501 (IRS Employer Identification Number) 2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD KENILWORTH, NJ 07033 (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code) (908) 298-4000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure Schering-Plough Corporation from time to time issues Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) that are believed to be of interest to investors. The most recent FAQS, dated December 2, 2004, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K and are posted on the Schering-Plough Website at www.schering-plough.com under "investor relations/investor publications." Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the FAQs. Readers should note the date of information when referring to the FAQs or other historical information available on the website. Item 8.01 Other Events As more fully discussed in the Company's Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q Schering-Plough (the "Company) has an interest rate swap arrangement in effect with a counterparty bank that is subject to credit rating triggers. The arrangement utilizes two long-term interest rate swap contracts, one between a foreign-based subsidiary of the Company and a bank and the other between a U.S. subsidiary of the Company and the same bank. The two contracts have equal and offsetting terms and are covered by a master netting arrangement. The contract involving the foreign-based subsidiary permits the subsidiary to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the bank, and the contract involving the U.S. subsidiary permits the bank to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the U.S. subsidiary. Interest is paid on the prepaid balances by both parties at market rates. Prepayments totaling $1.9 billion have been made under both contracts as of September 30, 2004. The arrangement originally provided that in the event the Company failed to maintain the required minimum credit ratings, the counterparty may terminate the transaction by designating an early termination date not earlier than 36-months following the date of such notice to terminate. Both S&P's and Moody's current credit ratings are below the specified minimum. As of this date the counterparty has not given the company notice to terminate. On December 1, 2004 the Company and the counterparty have mutually agreed to amend the swap contracts as follows: 1. The Company and the counterparty have agreed to a phased termination of the arrangement wherein the Company's U.S. subsidiary and the counterparty will terminate individual swap contracts under the arrangement pursuant to an agreed schedule. Termination of the swap contracts will require the Company's U.S. subsidiary to repay the prepayments it received from the counterparty. Simultaneously, the Company's foreign-based subsidiary and the counterparty will terminate individual swap contracts under the arrangement. Termination of the swap contracts will require the counterparty to repay the prepayments it received from the Company's foreign-based subsidiary. The scheduled terminations and associated repayment of the prepaid amounts will begin no later than March 30, 2005 and will end no later than January 15, 2009. The Company may, at its option, accelerate the scheduled terminations and associated payments for a nominal fee.
The financial impact of the phased terminations and associated payments depends on the manner and extent to which the Company decides to finance its U.S. repayment obligation. The Company could finance its entire obligation by obtaining short- or long-term financing in the United States. (In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the consolidated balance sheet.) However, the Company's ability to finance its obligation under the swaps will depend on the Company's credit ratings and business operations, as well as market conditions, at the time such financing is contemplated. Alternatively, the Company could repatriate to the United States some or all of the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary. Repatriating funds could have U.S. income tax consequences depending primarily on profitability of the U.S. operations. Any such tax would be accrued against future earnings, and may result in the Company reporting a higher effective tax rate. Currently, the U.S. operations are generating tax losses. However, future tax losses may be insufficient to absorb any or all of the potential tax should the Company repatriate some or all of the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary. As more fully discussed in the Company's September 30, 2004 10-Q, under the recently enacted "American Jobs Creation Act of 2004" the Company may be able to finance its U.S. repayment obligation by repatriating the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary at a significantly reduced tax cost. 2. The 36-month grace period that previously applied in the event the counterparty gives notice of termination as a result of the Company's failure to maintain the required minimum credit ratings, has been extended to January 15, 2009. In the event that the counterparty gives the Company a termination notice under this provision, all scheduled terminations and associated payments per paragraph 1 above will continue according to the agreed schedule during the time between delivery of the termination notice and January 15, 2009. 3. The transactions' original provisions which also allowed the counterparty to give a 12-month notice to terminate the transaction if, on the 10th anniversary of the transaction (November 17, 2007), the Company's credit ratings were not at least "A2" by Moody's and "A" by S&P, have been eliminated. In its place the Company has accepted a new credit trigger which provides that the counterparty may terminate the transaction should the Company fail to maintain a long-term, U.S. dollar denominated, senior unsecured indebtedness rating of at least "BBB" by S&P or "Baa2" by Moody's. Termination under this provision would be on the later of November 16, 2007 or 60 days from the date the Company receives such notice to terminate. Should the Company fail to meet the minimum credit requirement resulting in an early termination under this provision, all scheduled swap terminations and associated payments per paragraph 1 above will continue through the termination date. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits The following exhibit is furnished with this 8-K: 99.1 December 2, 2004, Investor Frequently Asked Questions and Answers SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Schering-Plough Corporation By: /s/ Douglas J. Gingerella ___________________________ Douglas J. Gingerella Vice President and Controller Date: December 2, 2004
Exhibit Index The following exhibit is furnished with this 8-K: 99.1 December 2, 2004, Investor Frequently Asked Questions and Answers

EXHIBIT 99.1 DECEMBER 2, 2004, INVESTOR FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS FROM TIME TO TIME, INVESTOR RELATIONS WILL PROVIDE FAQS ON VARIOUS TOPICS OF INTEREST TO INVESTORS. THE FOLLOWING IS A COMPILATION OF FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS. Q WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR THE GROSS MARGIN? WHAT IS THE EXPECTED IMPACT OF THE BAYER AGREEMENT ON GROSS MARGIN? A The company anticipates that the gross margin will continue to be impacted by the company's product sales mix, production volumes and increased spending associated with our compliance efforts. Looking forward, the Bayer transaction will have an unfavorable impact on our gross margin, as we will pay a substantial royalty of greater than 50 percent to Bayer on the U.S. sales of AVELOX, CIPRO and ADALAT. Q WHAT IS THE IMPACT OF THE BAYER AGREEMENT ON SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES? A Looking forward, we plan to integrate about 800-900 Bayer sales representatives into Schering-Plough in the 2004 fourth quarter. As a result, we expect our sales force costs to increase accordingly. Q WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO THE APPROVAL OF THE HOMELAND INVESTMENT ACT? A The President signed the American Jobs Creation Act into law on October 22. This law, which included the important Homeland Investment Act, promises to benefit the U.S. economy and foster job creation. For Schering-Plough, the company is pleased that it may enable us to access cash held overseas at a lower tax rate and strengthen our domestic operations here in the United States. Q ONCE YOU HAVE REPATRIATED THE OVERSEAS FUNDS, WHAT DO YOU INTEND TO DO WITH THE MONEY? A Before any dividends from foreign subsidiaries can be provided to the domestic parent company, the legislation requires that companies prepare a domestic reinvestment plan. Until the law can be fully analyzed and a proper reinvestment plan has been prepared and approved by senior management, it would be premature to speculate on how the repatriated funds might be spent. In addition, there is little official guidance on the specific allowable uses of the repatriated earnings. We are currently assessing the legislation's potential application for Schering-Plough.
Q WHAT WERE SALES OF ZETIA AND VYTORIN IN THE 2004 THIRD QUARTER? A Global cholesterol franchise sales, which include ZETIA and VYTORIN, totaled $344 million in the 2004 third quarter compared with sales of $137 million in 2003. Global sales of ZETIA in the 2004 third quarter were $294 million, including $256 million in U.S. sales. This compares to 2003 third quarter global ZETIA sales of $137 million. Global sales of VYTORIN in the 2004 third quarter were $50 million, of which $42 million came from the U.S. VYTORIN was launched in the U.S. during the 2004 third quarter. Q DOES SCHERING-PLOUGH HAVE INVENTORY MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS WITH ITS WHOLESALERS? A Schering-Plough recently put in place inventory management programs with certain key customers. Our goal is to maintain a consistent supply of products to the wholesaler, retailer, and patient to fill true demand. We will continue to closely monitor our supply chain and trade inventory levels to ensure this goal is met. Q WHAT WILL BE THE IMPACT GOING FORWARD OF THE MANDATORY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDEND? A On Aug. 10, 2004, Schering-Plough issued 28.75 million shares of 6 percent mandatory convertible preferred stock with a face value of $1.4 billion. The mandatory conversion date of the shares is Sept. 14, 2007. The preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of 6 percent on shares outstanding. As a result, the company will make an after-tax payment of approximately $86 million ($0.06 per share) each year for the preferred stock dividend, assuming no conversions take place, until the mandatory conversion in September 2007. This dividend payment will accrue on a quarterly basis and thus, lower net income available to common shareholders.
Q WHAT IS THE STATUS OF YOUR CONSENT DECREE OBLIGATIONS? HAVE YOU COMPLETED THE BULK OF THE WORK REQUIRED? A As of September 30, 2004 we have completed 142 of 212 significant steps and 20 of 33 validation actions - and so far our teams have met this unprecedented challenge without incurring any payments for missed deadlines. We plan to continue to work diligently toward completing these deadlines on time; however, we will not sacrifice quality work in order to meet a deadline. While we have completed a large portion of our work, it is important to note that the fourth quarter is still a steep part of the compliance curve. In addition, the Consent Decree contains a sunset provision that permits the Company to petition the Court to dissolve the Decree if, during any five year period following the entry of the Decree (May 20, 2002), FDA has not notified the Company that there has been a significant violation of FDA law, regulations, or the Decree. If these conditions are satisfied, the Decree states that FDA will not oppose the Company's petition. The earliest the Company would be in a position to submit such a petition would be May, 2007 (five years after the entry of the Decree). Note: The total number of significant steps and validation actions has been revised from year-end 2003 to account for certain product discontinuations and/or outsourcing to third-party manufacturers. Q HAVE THERE BEEN ANY CHANGES TO YOUR PRODUCT PIPELINE? A Schering-Plough from time to time updates public information about its products in development, also known as its "Product Pipeline." The information, updated as of November 2004, is available on the Schering-Plough Web site at www.schering-plough.com under "investor relations/investor publications". Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the information in the future, and readers should note the date of information when referring to the product pipeline or other historical information available on the Web site. The following is a summary of the recent changes to the Schering-Plough Product Pipeline: PHASE II New to this phase is the PDE 5 Inhibitor as a treatment for erectile dysfunction. PHASE III REMICADE Two new indications have been added to this phase: juvenile idiopathic arthritis and pediatric Crohn's disease. NDA/HRD FILED U.S. and international regulatory submissions have been accepted as filed for TEMODAR as a treatment of gliomas, a form of brain cancer. The U.S. FDA has granted a priority review. JNDA FILED A new JNDA Filed section has been added to the Product Pipeline to track company regulatory filings of key products in Japan. As previously disclosed, ZETIA for monotherapy treatment of high cholesterol was filed in Japan in the 2003 fourth quarter.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: This Investor FAQ contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the outlook for our gross margin and the potential impacts of implementation of the strategic agreement with Bayer. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events and not to historical information. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. There are no guarantees about what our gross margin will be in the future, the impacts of the strategic agreement or the performance of Schering-Plough stock or Schering-Plough's business. Actual results may vary materially from forward-looking statements made here or in other Schering-Plough written or spoken communications due to many factors and uncertainties, which include the market acceptance of ZETIA in Japan, trade buying patterns for Schering-Plough products and Bayer products covered by the strategic agreement (together, "products"), the introduction and performance of competitive products, legislation that may impact the pricing/ availability of the products and other items impacting Schering-Plough, the pharmaceutical industry, and business generally, all as discussed in Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the 10-Q filed October 28, 2004.


