FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20040218210835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FEBRUARY 18, 2004 ------------------------------------------------ Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) NEW JERSEY 1-6571 22-1918501 - ---------------------------- ------------------------ ---------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification Number) 2000 GALLOPING HILL ROAD KENILWORTH, NJ 07033 ------------------------------------------------------------ (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code) (908) 298-4000 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE S&P Downgrade On February 18, 2004 Standard & Poor's (S&P): 1. lowered Schering-Plough's corporate credit and long-term debt ratings to "A-" from "A," 2. lowered its ratings on Schering-Plough's credit and commercial paper to "A-2" from "A-1," 3. said the outlook on the ratings is negative, and 4. removed Schering-Plough's ratings from CreditWatch. The S&P press release contains much other information that may be of interest to investors. That press release is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. Other Credit Ratings In understanding the impact of the S&P downgrade, it is helpful to consider the credit ratings and recent credit rating actions of Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and FitchRatings Service (Fitch), the other ratings agencies that rate Schering-Plough securities. On October 9, 2003, Moody's lowered Schering-Plough's corporate credit rating to "A-3" from "A-1" and lowered its commercial paper rating to "P-2" from "P-1." Following this rating action, Moody's removed Schering-Plough from its Watchlist and revised its rating outlook to stable from negative. Moody's also stated that its credit rating assumed modest outflows to settle outstanding litigation or acquisitions and that a very large payment associated with litigation proceedings or acquisition activity could place pressure on the rating and/or outlook. On November 20, 2003, Fitch downgraded Schering-Plough's senior unsecured and bank loan ratings to "A-" from "A+," and its commercial paper rating to "F2" from "F1." Schering-Plough's Rating Outlook remained negative. In announcing the downgrade, Fitch noted that the sales decline in Schering-Plough's leading product franchise, the INTRON franchise, was greater than anticipated, and that it was concerned that total company growth is reliant on the performance of two key growth drivers, ZETIA and REMICADE, in the near term. Long-Term Borrowing with Step Up Provisions Tied to Credit Ratings On November 26, 2003, the Company issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. Proceeds from this offering of $2.4 billion are being used for general corporate purposes, including to repay commercial paper outstanding in the United States. Upon issuance, the notes were rated A3 by Moody's Investors' Service (Moody's) and A+ (on CreditWatch with negative implications) by S&P. The interest rates payable on the notes are subject to adjustment. If the rating assigned to the notes by either Moody's or S&P is downgraded below "A3" or "A-," respectively, the interest rate payable on that series of notes will increase. The February 18, 2004 S&P downgrade action and Moody's current rating does not trigger the credit rating step up provisions, so there will be no adjustment to the interest rate as a result of S&P's downgrade. 2
Other Financial Arrangements Containing Credit Rating Downgrade Triggers Schering-Plough has two separate arrangements that enable it to manage cash flows between its U.S. subsidiaries and its foreign-based subsidiaries. Both of these arrangements employ interest rate swaps and both of these arrangements have similar credit rating downgrade triggers which allow the counterparty to call for early termination. The credit rating downgrade triggers require Schering-Plough to maintain a long-term debt rating of at least "A2" by Moody's or "A" by S&P. Both S&P's and Moody's current credit ratings are now below this specified minimum. As a result, the counterparties to the interest rate swaps can call for early termination following a specified period as previously disclosed. One of the arrangements utilizes two long-term interest rate swap contracts, one between a foreign-based subsidiary and a bank and the other between a U.S. subsidiary and the same bank. The two contracts have equal and offsetting terms and are covered by a master netting arrangement. The contract involving the foreign-based subsidiary permits the subsidiary to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the bank, and the contract involving the U.S. subsidiary permits the bank to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the U.S. subsidiary. Interest is paid on the prepaid balances by both parties at market rates. Prepayments totaling $1.9 billion have been made under both contracts as of December 31, 2003. The prepaid amounts have been netted in the preparation of the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts." This arrangement provides that in the event Schering-Plough fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings, the counterparty may terminate the transaction by designating an early termination date not earlier than 36 months following the date of such notice to terminate. However, if such notice is given, the early termination consequences discussed below would occur at the end of the three-year period. Early termination requires repayment of all prepaid amounts, and repayment must occur in the original tax jurisdiction in which the prepaid amounts were made. Accordingly, early termination would require Schering-Plough's U.S. subsidiary to repay $1.9 billion to the bank and for the bank to repay $1.9 billion to Schering-Plough's foreign-based subsidiary. The financial impact of early termination depends on the manner and extent to which Schering-Plough decides to finance its U.S. repayment obligation. Schering-Plough could finance its entire obligation by obtaining short- or long-term financing in the United States. (In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the consolidated balance sheet.) However, Schering-Plough's ability to finance its obligation under the swaps will depend on Schering-Plough's credit ratings and business operations, as well as market conditions, at the time such financing is contemplated. Alternatively, Schering-Plough could repatriate to the United States some or all of the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary. Repatriating funds could have U.S. income tax consequences depending primarily on profitability of the U.S. operations. Any such tax would be accrued against future earnings, and may result in Schering-Plough reporting a higher effective tax rate. Currently, the U.S. operations are generating tax losses. However, future tax losses may be insufficient to absorb any or all of the potential tax should Schering-Plough repatriate some or all of the funds received by the foreign-based subsidiary. As stated above, termination of the transaction cannot occur earlier than 36 months following the date on which Schering-Plough receives a termination notice from the counterparty. Accordingly, early termination is not imminent. Due to this fact, as well as the alternative 3
courses of action available to Schering-Plough in the event of early termination, the potential of early termination does not impact current liquidity and financial resources. The second arrangement utilizes long-term interest rate swap contracts, one entered into in 1991 with a notional principal of $650 million and a second entered into in 1992 with a notional principal of $950 million. The terms of these contracts enable Schering-Plough to sell the right to receive payments while retaining the obligation to make payments. In 1991 and 1992, the U.S. parent company sold the rights to receive payments under both contracts to a foreign-based subsidiary in return for approximately $700 million (estimated fair market value at the time). The contracts allow the counterparty to effectively terminate the transaction if Schering-Plough fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings and within 60 days does not restore at least one of the required minimum credit ratings. Schering-Plough's credit rating fell below the required minimum credit rating on February 18, 2004. It is unlikely Schering-Plough will restore at least one of its credit ratings in the allotted time. Early termination of these contracts due to a credit rating downgrade would most likely result in the U.S. parent company reacquiring the right to receive payments from its foreign-based subsidiary and terminating the transaction with the counterparty on a net basis. The reacquisition of the rights to receive payments under the swap contracts would occur either by the U.S. parent company buying back the rights for their fair market value or by having the foreign-based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company. Buying back the right would necessitate funding in the United States, which Schering-Plough currently estimates would be approximately $450 million, which amounts would be transferred to the foreign-based subsidiary. In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. Alternatively, having the foreign-based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company could result in additional U.S. income taxes. Presently, the U.S. operations of Schering-Plough are generating tax losses. These losses are expected to exceed the value of the intercompany dividend necessary to reacquire the rights. As a result, in the event of early termination, management has the alternative of reacquiring the rights and terminating the transaction with the counterparty without materially impacting liquidity or financial resources. Accordingly, management does not view early termination of this arrangement to be a material event impacting current liquidity and financial resources. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K: 99.1 Release issued by Standard & Poor's concerning Schering-Plough February 18, 2004 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Schering-Plough Corporation By /s/ Thomas H. Kelly - ----------------------------- Thomas H. Kelly Vice President and Controller Date: February 18, 2004 5
EXHIBIT INDEX The following exhibit is filed with this 8-K: 99.1 Release issued by Standard & Poor's concerning Schering-Plough February 18, 2004 6

EXHIBIT 99.1 [SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP. LETTERHEAD] RATIONALE On Feb. 18, 2004, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings on pharmaceutical manufacturer Schering-Plough Corp. to 'A-' from 'A'. At the same time, Standard & Poor's lowered its short-term corporate credit and commercial paper rating on Schering-Plough to 'A-2' from 'A-1'. The outlook is negative. The ratings have been removed from CreditWatch, where they were placed Jan. 26, 2004, following the company's announcement that its 2004 operating losses would be worse than those recorded in 2003. The downgrade reflects Standard & Poor's belief that Schering-Plough's earnings prospects remain highly uncertain, that the operational turnaround being implemented by the company's new management will take several years, and that the company's financials will significantly deteriorate given its reduced cash flows and increasing cash needs. The investment-grade ratings on Kenilworth, N.J.-based Schering-Plough reflect the company's strong position in the highly profitable pharmaceutical business given its diverse drug portfolio, the promise of the recently launched cholesterol drug Zetia, and its conservative financial profile. Despite the loss of sales of longtime mainstay allergy drug Claritin after its U.S. patent expiration in late 2002, Schering-Plough continues to maintain a diverse portfolio that features major products PEG-Intron, Clarinex, Nasonex, Remicade, Integrilin, and Zetia. The company's best sales growth prospect is Zetia, a treatment for lowering cholesterol levels that Schering-Plough launched with its co-marketing partner Merck & Co. in late 2002. The fast-growing, $20 billion market for drugs that reduce cholesterol is currently dominated by statin drugs, but Zetia, because of its unique mechanism of action, can be used in conjunction with these statins or by itself. With the help of Merck, which sells one of the leading statins, Zocor, Zetia now captures more than 5% of new prescriptions. Sales growth of the Zetia franchise could accelerate once the combination Zetia/Zocor pill reaches market, which is expected by late 2004. The combination pill not only makes it more convenient to dose, but also removes the need for two co-payments for the
combination treatment and makes it easier for physicians to prescribe. Sales prospects are also strong for the rheumatoid arthritis treatment Remicade and the cardiovascular treatment Integrilin, two products in-licensed by the company. Schering-Plough holds the international rights for Remicade, which is expected to generate especially strong sales given the fast-growing market for rheumatoid arthritis treatments. Another indication for the treatment of psoriasis, currently in Phase III clinical trials, would significantly expand the market for the drug. The company is also seeking to increase marketing support behind its inhaled nasal steroid, Nasonex, in order to recapture lost market share. Schering-Plough's other major franchises, PEG-Intron and Clarinex, both of which still have major market shares, are experiencing heavy competitive pressures. PEG-Intron, which previously dominated the market for hepatitis C treatments, has lost significant share to a new rival, Hoffman-La Roche Inc.'s drug Pegasys. Hoffman-La Roche (unrated) has aggressively priced its own combination treatment, Pegasys/Copegus, at a significant discount to Schering-Plough's PEG-Intron/Rebetol combination. Consequently, Schering-Plough has seen its share of new prescriptions sink significantly from its nearly 100% level in 2002, to just under 50%. This rapid erosion in market share is especially disappointing because the PEG-Intron franchise had become critically important to the company after it lost exclusivity on Claritin. The company has reorganized its sales force behind PEG-Intron and is now launching a more convenient REDIPEN version of the treatment. However, Standard & Poor's does not expect a quick reversal of the lost PEG-Intron share. Furthermore, generic versions of the companion drug Rebetol may reach market soon, causing a further erosion of sales for the overall franchise. Separately, Clarinex, a second-generation antihistamine and successor to Claritin, has not received a favorable reimbursement status from major managed-care providers, now that a much lower priced over-the-counter Claritin is available. Where Claritin had nearly 40% of the antihistamine market in 2001, Clarinex has been able to garner only 15% of total new prescriptions. Meanwhile, Schering-Plough continues to struggle with several important corporate issues. First, the inability to bring manufacturing into compliance with FDA guidelines has forced the company to operate under a consent decree that mandates the revalidation of its drugs manufacturing processes by Dec. 31, 2005. At the same time, the near-term product
pipeline is relatively bare. Other than the high-potential Zetia/Zocor combination pill, the company has only one other prospect with significant potential, the anti-fungal Noxafil. Lastly, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts is investigating the company's sales, marketing, and clinical trial practices. During the third quarter of 2003, Schering-Plough raised its litigation reserve by $350 million in connection with this investigation and other outstanding legal matters. Nevertheless, Schering-Plough's portfolio, which includes other significant products such as Nasonex, Remicade, and the cardiovascular treatment Integrilin, remains relatively diverse. Indeed, whereas Claritin once accounted for almost a third of the company's total revenues, the Intron franchise, now the best selling, accounts for a more manageable 22% of total sales. Zetia has the potential to make a huge impact on the marketplace. None of Schering-Plough's major products face patent expiration in the next several years. Clarinex is the earliest, in 2007. The company continues to maintain a very conservative financial profile, characterized by a net cash position. Operating margins have declined to roughly 15% from 34% in 2000 because of increased R&D spending, promotional spending to launch Zetia and OTC Claritin, and the loss of high-margin prescription Claritin and PEG-Intron sales. Return on capital declined during the same period, to under 20% from nearly 55%. Margins and returns will likely continue to decline in the intermediate term, as lower margin foreign sales and sales of products licensed from other companies make up a greater portion of overall sales. To improve profitability, the company has embarked on a cost-containment program, including a 10% reduction in payroll and related expenses. Nevertheless, Schering-Plough's leverage measures are expected to remain strong and consistent with the current ratings. Liquidity. Even with lowered product sales expectations, Standard & Poor's believes that Schering-Plough will maintain a very high level of liquidity. As of Sept. 30, 2003, the company had $4.3 billion of on-hand cash and investments. The company faces no near-term debt maturities. Schering-Plough has taken the prudent step of recently cutting its dividend dramatically, reducing cash outflow to just more than $300 million from $1 billion annually. Schering-Plough also recently termed out $2.4 billion of debt.
OUTLOOK The outlook is negative. Schering-Plough is in an important transition. However, any turnaround will be a protracted process, given the various marketing, manufacturing, R&D, and legal issues faced by the company, and success is highly uncertain. In the meantime, operating performance and cash flow protection measures are expected to deteriorate, especially given the possibility of significant cash outlays in the intermediate term relating to settlement of ongoing investigations into the company's marketing practices. Failure to improve its operating performance and/or financial profile will result in a company downgrade in the next couple of years. RATINGS LIST Schering-Plough Corp. Downgraded To From Corporate credit A-/Neg A/Watch Neg Senior unsecured A- A/Watch Neg Commercial paper A-2 A-1/Watch Neg


