FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20051024071319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Schering-Plough today issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports 2005 Third Quarter Financial Results" and provided additional supplemental financial data. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K. The supplemental financial data is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this 8-K.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
Disclosure Notice for Forward Looking Statements
This 8-K, including each exhibit, the comments of Schering-Plough officers during our earnings teleconference / webcast on October 24, 2005 at 8:00 am (EDT) and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and are based on current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "project," "intend," "plan," "potential," "will," and other similar words and terms. In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, ability to access the capital markets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, development programs, estimates of rebates, discounts and returns, expenses and programs to reduce expenses, the cost of and savings from reductions in work force, the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations, growth strategy and financial results.
Any or all forward-looking statements here or in other publications may turn out to be wrong. There are no guarantees about Schering-Plough's financial and operational performance or the performance of Schering-Plough's stock. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see Schering-Plough's past and future SEC reports and filings.
Table of Contents
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
The following exhibits are furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 with this 8-K:
99.1 Press release dated October 24, 2005 titled "Schering-Plough Reports 2005 Third Quarter Financial Results" (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)
99.2 Supplemental Financial Data (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are furnished with this 8-K:
99.1 Press release dated October 24, 2005 titled "Schering-Plough Reports 2005 Third Quarter Financial Results" (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)
99.2 Supplemental Financial Data (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02)

 
Exhibit 99.1
KENILWORTH, N.J., Oct. 24, 2005  "Today we are announcing a major milestone in the transformation of Schering-Plough  the beginning of the Turnaround phase," said Fred Hassan, chairman and CEO of Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP), in reporting financial results for the 2005 third quarter.
     "When I joined Schering-Plough in the spring of 2003, this was a company facing serious challenges requiring urgent stabilization and repair. Today, thanks to many bold actions on many fronts by our people around the world, Schering-Plough has halted a downward spiral of performance. We are now driving growth and steadily building strength."
     For the 2005 third quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $43 million or 3 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. The per-share results include a charge of 8 cents per share related to a previously announced R&D payment made to Centocor, Inc., and a favorable impact of 3 cents per share for a tax-related item.
     Hassan added: "With the results reported today, we have now registered our fourth consecutive quarter of strong sales growth and our third consecutive quarter of higher earnings, excluding special items. We will continue to work on driving growth coupled with financial discipline in order to transform Schering-Plough into a high-performance competitor for the long term."
     The Turnaround phase is the third of five phases in the six- to eight-year Action Agenda announced by Hassan in April 2003, shortly after joining the company as chairman and CEO. The Turnaround phase, which starts now, is expected to run for 12 to 18 months and follows the Stabilize and Repair phases. Hassan noted that actions to strengthen Schering-Plough's infrastructure, systems and business practices that were launched in the earlier phases will continue into the Turnaround phase.
     Hassan continued: "We achieved solid growth across a broad front in the recent quarter. In addition to our cholesterol franchise, seven of our top 10 prescription products recorded double-digit sales increases in the third quarter. We are building product development excellence and we are making steady progress in advancing our R&D pipeline. Our global supply chain is achieving improved operating efficiencies. We are completing our obligations under the FDA consent decree
 
while working to put other issues from the past behind us. We are on the right track and delivering on our plans," he said.
     Looking ahead, Hassan outlined the company's objectives for the Turnaround phase.
     "Our first goal is to continue to deliver solid top-line sales growth, which, when supported by continuing overhead cost-containment and reinvestment, would drive bottom-line earnings growth for the long term," he stated.
     "Our second goal is to set the foundation for the fourth phase in our Action Agenda  the Build the Base phase. During this phase, we will be focused on developing breadth and depth across the company  including in our pipeline and product portfolio."
     Hassan noted that during the Turnaround phase, the company will also continue working to complete important actions initiated in the Stabilize and Repair phases, such as the FDA consent decree.
Reviewing key accomplishments in the 2005 third quarter, Hassan cited the strong performance of the cholesterol franchise, managed in partnership with Merck & Co., Inc. and comprising VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin) and ZETIA (ezetimibe). As a franchise, the two products together have captured more than 13 percent of new prescriptions for the U.S. cholesterol management market (based on IMS). VYTORIN, which offers dual inhibition of both sources of LDL cholesterol, continues to gain share in the large and competitive U.S. cholesterol market. After just one year since launch, VYTORIN now ranks as the third-leading prescription product for treating patients with high cholesterol (based on new prescriptions). To date, physicians have written more than 6 million total prescriptions for VYTORIN in the United States. ZETIA is retaining its strength even as VYTORIN grows its market share.
Highlights of Third Quarter 2005
     "We will continue to seek out opportunities and demonstrate the qualities that Schering-Plough can bring as a licensing and comarketing partner," Hassan said. "These kinds of agreements are an important way for us to strengthen our competitive position and broaden our product pipeline," he added, citing two recent examples. In August, the company announced it had exercised its rights to develop and commercialize CNTO 148 (golimumab) with Centocor, Inc. Golimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody being developed as a therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Effective Sept. 1, Schering-Plough acquired exclusive U.S. development and commercialization rights to INTEGRILIN for acute coronary syndrome under a restructured agreement with Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as previously disclosed.
 
     Turning to the FDA consent decree, he said Schering-Plough continues to make steady progress in fulfilling its obligations to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. As of Sept. 30, the company has completed 197 of 212 significant steps and 27 of 30 validation actions without incurring any payments for missed deadlines. An important recent accomplishment was the completion of revalidation programs for bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients by Sept. 30, 2005, as required under the consent decree. The company is working toward its goal of completing the GMP Workplan and revalidation of finished drugs by Dec. 31, 2005. "While we have built an excellent record of meeting our consent decree commitments, we know our work is not yet done and challenges remain. We intend to meet those challenges," he added, "in order to be in a position to request by May of 2007 to have the decree lifted. These efforts have further strengthened the company and better prepared us to meet the challenges of the future."
     Hassan said Schering-Plough would continue to build its strength in global operations, with additional investments and expenditures in pharmaceutical development, IT systems, manufacturing, post-marketing studies and monitoring, and other areas. "We are investing for the long term," Hassan added, "as we work to advance the Action Agenda and pursue our goals for the New Schering-Plough."
Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $43 million in the 2005 third quarter or 3 cents per common share compared with net income available to common shareholders in the 2004 period of $14 million or 1 cent per share. Included in the 2005 results is a charge of $124 million, or 8 cents per share, related to an R&D payment for exercising rights to develop and commercialize CNTO 148 (golimumab). Also included in 2005 third quarter net income available to common shareholders is a favorable impact of 3 cents per share, or $42 million, related to a reduction in tax expense associated with a tax charge taken in the 2004 fourth quarter related to the American Jobs Creation Act based on additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury in August 2005.
Third Quarter 2005 Results
     Third quarter 2005 net sales of $2.3 billion were 15 percent higher than the 2004 period. The sales increase was driven primarily by the growth of prescription pharmaceuticals, led by PEG-INTRON, REMICADE, TEMODAR and REBETOL. Contributing 5 percent to the sales increase was the U.S. sales contribution from the antibiotics AVELOX and CIPRO and other products under an agreement with Bayer that became effective in October 2004, and 1 percent from the impact of foreign exchange.
     The company noted that net sales under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) does not include sales of the cholesterol products marketed in partnership with Merck, as the company accounts for the cholesterol joint venture under the equity method as described below. Global
 
cholesterol joint venture net sales, which include VYTORIN and ZETIA, totaled approximately $616 million in the 2005 third quarter, compared to net sales of $340 million in the comparable 2004 period. U.S. cholesterol joint venture net sales for the 2005 period totaled $506 million versus $298 million in 2004. It should be noted that VYTORIN was launched in the United States during the comparable 2004 period. VYTORIN has now been launched in more than 20 countries, and ZETIA in more than 60 countries. Overall, the company shares in approximately 50 percent of the profits of the joint venture with Merck, although there are different profit-sharing arrangements for the cholesterol products in countries around the world. Accordingly, including an adjustment of an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales (see note and table below), Schering-Plough's adjusted net sales for the third quarter of 2005 would have totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of $444 million or 21 percent, as compared to $2.1 billion on a similar adjusted basis in the third quarter of 2004.
     The company utilizes the equity method of accounting for its cholesterol joint venture with Merck. Under the equity method, the company records its share of the income from operations (which includes milestones earned from Merck) in "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture." "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" for Schering-Plough totaled $215 million in the 2005 third quarter versus $95 million in the third quarter of 2004. The increase in equity income reflected the quarter's strong sales performance for VYTORIN and ZETIA. The company noted that it incurs substantial costs, such as selling, general and administrative costs, that are not reflected in "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" and are borne by the overall cost structure of Schering-Plough.
     On a reported basis, third quarter 2005 sales of Prescription Pharmaceuticals, which do not include sales of the cholesterol joint venture, totaled $1.8 billion, up 18 percent, including a favorable impact from foreign exchange of 1 percent and the sales contribution of AVELOX and CIPRO.
     Among prescription products recording significantly higher sales in the 2005 third quarter were REMICADE, up 26 percent to $237 million, and TEMODAR, up 25 percent to $152 million. REMICADE is a treatment for immune-mediated inflammatory disorders that Schering-Plough markets in countries outside the United States (excluding Japan and certain Far East markets) for rheumatoid arthritis, early rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn's disease, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis. REMICADE sales were higher primarily due to greater demand, expanded indications and continued market growth. Sales of TEMODAR, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, grew due to increased utilization for treating newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), which is the most prevalent form of brain cancer. This new indication was granted U.S. approval in March and European Commission approval in June. Also posting higher sales in the quarter was CAELYX, for
 
the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposi's sarcoma, up 17 percent to $46 million, largely as a result of increased use in treating ovarian and breast cancer.
     Sales for the company's PEG-INTRON and REBETOL hepatitis C products rose in the 2005 third quarter, driven primarily by higher sales in Japan as a result of the December 2004 launch of the PEG-INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy. In Japan, PEG-INTRON has become the leading interferon therapy prescribed for the treatment of hepatitis C. Third quarter global sales of PEG-INTRON were up 40 percent to $185 million. U.S. sales of PEG-INTRON decreased 16 percent to $42 million in the third quarter, primarily reflecting a decline in the overall market as compared to the third quarter of 2004. Global sales of REBETOL were up 58 percent to $82 million in the 2005 third quarter.
     In the company's prescription respiratory business, global NASONEX sales rose 11 percent to $170 million, with U.S. sales climbing 4 percent to $109 million and international sales climbing 26 percent to $61 million, as the product captured greater U.S. and international market share versus the 2004 period. Global CLARINEX sales in the third quarter of 2005 were $157 million, down 10 percent. In the United States, CLARINEX continued to experience reduced market share in a declining market. As a result, U.S. sales decreased 22 percent to $93 million. Sales of CLARINEX outside the United States rose 13 percent to $64 million in the third quarter due to market share gains. International sales of prescription CLARITIN rose 13 percent to $76 million in the third quarter.
     Third quarter 2005 Consumer Health Care sales decreased 2 percent to $235 million. The decline was largely due to lower sales of CLARITIN-D and other OTC products containing the decongestant pseudoephedrine (PSE), reflecting the beginning of the adverse impact of recent restrictions on retail sales of PSE-containing OTC products. Sales of OTC CLARITIN decreased $18 million, or 16 percent, to $92 million. Sales of sun care products increased sharply to total $21 million, benefiting from the successful launch of COPPERTONE CONTINUOUS SPRAY sun care products. Sales of foot care products were essentially unchanged at $85 million.
     Animal Health sales increased 14 percent to $209 million, reflecting higher sales of core products across most geographic areas, led by products serving the U.S. cattle market, and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of 1 percent.
     The company's gross margin was 66.0 percent for the 2005 third quarter compared with 64.1 percent in the 2004 period, with the improvement primarily stemming from supply chain process improvements and a positive impact from foreign exchange, partly offset by higher royalties related to the Bayer products and the impact of the restructured agreement for INTEGRILIN, which became effective Sept. 1. The company's gross margin is not impacted by results of operations of the cholesterol joint venture, as these results are reflected in equity income. Schering-Plough said its
 
ongoing focus on operational excellence in all key functions continues to affect the overall cost structure of the company.
     Selling, general and administrative expenses rose 19 percent to $1.1 billion in the third quarter of 2005 versus the prior year, primarily reflecting the addition in the 2004 fourth quarter of Bayer sales representatives, increased selling expenses in Europe to support the continued launch of ZETIA and VYTORIN, and increased promotional spending, primarily for NASONEX and ASMANEX.
     Research and development spending for the 2005 third quarter totaled $566 million. Research and development for the third quarter of 2005 includes the $124 million R&D payment related to exercising the right to develop and commercialize golimumab with Centocor, Inc. The company expects R&D spending to continue to reflect the timing of clinical trials and the progression of the early-stage pipeline.
The company also offered the following summary of recent significant developments, including:
Recent Developments
 
Schering-Plough will conduct a conference call today at 8 a.m. (EDT) to review the 2005 third quarter results. To listen live to the call, dial 1-877-565-9664 or 1-706-634-5003. A replay of the call will be available starting at approximately 11 a.m. today through 5 p.m. on Oct. 28. To listen to the replay, dial 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 and enter the conference ID #8837183.
Third Quarter 2005 Conference Call and Webcast
     A live audio webcast of the conference call also will be available by going to the Investor Relations section of the Schering-Plough corporate Web site, www.schering-plough.com, and clicking on the "Presentations/Webcasts" link. A replay of the webcast will be available starting at approximately 11 a.m. today through 5 p.m. on Nov. 24.
NOTE: Adjusted net sales, defined as net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales, is a non-U.S. GAAP measure used by management in evaluating the performance of the company's overall business. The company believes that this performance measure contributes to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company. The company provides this information to supplement the reader's understanding of the importance to the company of its share of results from the operations of the cholesterol joint venture.
 
     Net sales (excluding the cholesterol joint venture net sales) is required to be presented under U.S. GAAP. The cholesterol joint venture's net sales are included as a component of income from operations in the calculation of the company's "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture."
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to the company's plans, its progress under the Action Agenda and anticipated timing regarding future performance of the Action Agenda, business prospects, anticipated growth, trends in performance, and the potential of certain products including VYTORIN and ZETIA. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events and not to historical information. Actual results may vary materially from the company's forward-looking statements and there are no guarantees about the performance of Schering-Plough stock or Schering-Plough's business. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause results to differ from forward-looking statements, including the market viability of the company's (and the cholesterol joint venture's) marketed and pipeline products; possible changes in business strategies and the ability to successfully implement those business strategies; general market and economic factors; regulations and legislation; label/use changes and concerns of prescribers or patients relating to Schering-Plough products, other companies' products or pharmaceutical products generally; existing and new manufacturing issues that may arise; trade buying patterns; patent positions; litigation and investigations; and instability or destruction in a geographic area important to the company. For further details of these and other risks and uncertainties that may impact forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the company's 8-K being filed today. The company does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
     Schering-Plough is a global science-based health care company with leading pharmaceutical products. Through internal research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough discovers, develops, manufactures and markets advanced drug therapies to meet important medical needs. Schering-Plough's vision is to earn the trust of the physicians, patients and customers served by its more than 30,000 people around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is .
www.schering-plough.com
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30 (unaudited): (Amounts in millions, except percentages and per share figures)
The Company noted that it incurs substantial costs related to the cholesterol joint venture, such as selling, general and administrative costs, that are not reflected in the "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" and are borne by the overall cost structure of Schering-Plough.
a/ Research and development for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 includes an R&D payment of $124 million, before a tax benefit of $6 million, to Centocor, Inc. for the Company's exercise of its right to develop and commercialize CNTO 148, a fully human monoclonal antibody being developed as a therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Research and development for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 includes an $80 million upfront payment in conjunction with the licensing from Toyama Chemical Company Ltd. of garenoxacin, a quinolone antibiotic in development.
b/ Special Charges for the first nine months of 2005 includes an addition of $250 million to the Company's litigation reserves relating to the investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts into the Company's marketing, sales, pricing and clinical trial practices, as well as previously disclosed investigations and litigation relating to the company's practices regarding average wholesale price by the Department of Justice and certain states. Special Charges for the three months ended September 30, 2005 primarily related to the consolidation of the Company's U.S. biotechnology organizations. Special Charges for the three months ended September 30, 2004 consisted primarily of employee termination costs. Special charges for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 included $111 million of employee termination costs and $27 million of asset impairment charges primarily related to the company's anticipated exit from a small European research-and-development facility.
 
c/ Tax expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 primarily related to foreign tax expense as the Company did not recognize the benefit of U.S. tax operating losses. The Company's third quarter tax provision includes a benefit of approximately $42 million related to tax expense recorded in 2004 related to planned earnings repatriations under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA). This adjustment of tax expense associated with repatriation under the AJCA is the result of guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury in August 2005. It should be noted that in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded the estimated impact of the intended repatriation of funds under the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the period ended September 30 (unaudited):
* Includes international sales of Claritin Rx only. Canadian sales of Claritin are reported in the OTC Claritin line within Consumer Health Care.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measure Adjusted net sales, defined as net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales.
a/ Total net sales of the cholesterol joint venture for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 were $616 million and $340 million, respectively. Total net sales of the cholesterol joint venture for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 were $1.6 billion and $772 million, respectively.
NOTE: Adjusted net sales, defined as net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales, is a non-U.S. GAAP measure used by management in evaluating the performance of the company's overall business. The company believes that this performance measure contributes to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company. The company provides this information to supplement the reader's understanding of the importance to the company of its share of results from the operations of the cholesterol joint venture. Net sales (excluding the cholesterol joint venture net sales) is required to be presented under U.S. GAAP. The cholesterol joint venture's net sales are included as a component of income from operations in the calculation of the company's "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture." Net sales of the cholesterol joint venture do not include net sales of cholesterol products in non-joint venture territories.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
Note: The Company noted that it incurs substantial costs, such as selling, general and administrative costs, that are not reflected in the "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" and are borne by the overall cost structure of Schering-Plough.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 
The results of the operation of the joint venture are reflected in equity income and have no impact on the Company's gross and other operating margins.
The company utilizes the equity method of accounting for the joint venture. The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of net income/(loss) based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In the U.S. market, Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits on the first $300 of annual ZETIA sales. Above $300 of annual ZETIA sales, the companies share profits equally. Schering-Plough's allocation of joint venture income is increased by milestones earned. Further, either partner's share of the joint venture's net income/(loss) is subject to a reduction if the partner fails to perform a specified minimum number of physician details in a particular country. The partners agree annually to the minimum number of physician details by country.
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.


