FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20051205164659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 52005
,
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective December 5, 2005, the Board of Directors of Schering-Plough Corporation elected C. Robert Kidder as a member of the Board of Directors. Mr. Kidder was appointed to the Compensation and Finance Committees.
A press release dated December 5, 2005 related to Mr. Kidder's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
By:
/s/ Susan Ellen Wolf
Susan Ellen Wolf Corporate Secretary, Vice President, Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel
Date: December 5, 2005
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Schering-Plough Corporation 2000 Galloping Hill Road Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530
     KENILWORTH, N.J., Dec. 5, 2005  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today announced the election of C. Robert Kidder as a member of its Board of Directors. Kidder is an independent director under both the New York Stock Exchange standards and the more restrictive Schering-Plough Board independence standard. Kidder is a principal of Stonehenge Partners, Inc. (a private investment firm) and retired Chairman and CEO of Borden Chemical, Inc.
     "Bob brings broad experience in the management of complex global organizations and sophisticated financial transactions," said Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough chairman and chief executive officer. "His experience and good judgment will be important as we move forward with new phases of our Action Agenda to transform Schering-Plough into a high-performance, global competitor."
     Kidder is also a director of Electronic Data Systems Corp. and Morgan Stanley (and its predecessor company Dean Witter). He is active in community service activities and serves on the Board of Trustees of the Children's Hospital of Columbus (Ohio), the Wexner Center for the Arts and Ohio University.
     Schering-Plough is a global science-based health care company with leading prescription, consumer and animal health products. Through internal research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough discovers, develops, manufactures and markets advanced drug therapies to meet important medical needs. Schering-Plough's vision is to earn the trust of the physicians, patients and customers served by its 30,000 people around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is www.schering-plough.com.


