FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20050902172235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 22005
,
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Schering-Plough Corporation from time to time issues Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) that are believed to be of interest. The most recent FAQs, dated September 2, 2005, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K and are posted on the Schering-Plough Website at www.schering-plough.com under "investor relations/investor FAQs."
Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the FAQs and readers should note the date of information when referring to the FAQs or other historical information available on the website.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished with this 8-K:
99.1 September 2, 2005 Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
By Douglas J. Gingerella Vice President and Controller
:   /s/ Douglas J. Gingerella
Date: September 2, 2005
 
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are furnished with this 8-K:
99.1 September 2, 2005 Frequently Asked Questions and Answers

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
The information in this FAQ contains certain "forward-looking" statements, including statements relating to the market for VYTORIN, the expected availability of ASMANEX, and the potential for gross margin changes. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering- Plough's forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements may be affected by general market and economic factors, uncertainties in the regulatory approval process, federal and state regulations and legislation, and other uncertainties described in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings under the heading "Disclosure Notice" including the company's second quarter 2005 10-Q. The company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


