FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20060315172349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 15, 2006
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On March 15, 2006 Schering-Plough Corporation announced that Steven H. Koehler will become Vice President and Controller and Principal Accounting Officer effective March 20, 2006.
Schering-Plough's
Mr. Koehler replaces current Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer, Douglas J. Gingerella, who will become Vice President focusing on the Company's Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI), effective March 20, 2006.
Mr. Koehler, 55, will join Schering-Plough from The Medicines Company, where he served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since 2002, and Senior Vice President since 2004. From 2002 to 2004, he also served as Corporate Secretary. Prior to The Medicines Company, Mr. Koehler served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Vion Pharmaceuticals from 2001 to 2002.
Under an agreement with the Company, in the event of a change of control, Mr. Koehler will be provided with compensation and benefits arrangements substantially identical to those included in the form of employment agreement effective upon a change of control filed as Exhibit 10(e)(vi) to the Company's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.
A press release dated March 15, 2006 related to these appointments is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
      
By Susan Ellen Wolf Corporate Secretary, Vice President, Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel
:   /s/ Susan Ellen Wolf
Date: March 15, 2006
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1
SCHERING-PLOUGH ANNOUNCES CHANGES IN EXECUTIVE FINANCE POSITIONS
KENILWORTH, N.J., March 15, 2006  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today announced several changes among its corporate finance executives.
     Effective March 15, 2006, David A. Piacquad is appointed senior vice president, Business Development. In this role, Piacquad will be responsible for identifying, analyzing and pursuing global business development opportunities in support of the company's growth and product development objectives. He also has been appointed to the Operations Management Team (OMT). Piacquad succeeds Tom Kelly, who has assumed a new role as vice president, strategic financial projects.
     Effective March 20, 2006, Steven H. Koehler is elected vice president and controller. Koehler joins Schering-Plough from The Medicines Company, where he was most recently senior vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer. From 2002 to 2004, he also served as corporate secretary. In addition, Koehler is appointed as a member of the OMT. He will succeed Douglas Gingerella, who is appointed vice president, focusing on the company's Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI).
     These positions are based in Kenilworth and report to Robert J. Bertolini, executive vice president and chief financial officer.
     "These changes are designed to further strengthen the global finance team, which continues to play an important role in the transformation of Schering-Plough," said Fred Hassan, chairman and chief executive officer.
     Prior to joining Schering-Plough, Piacquad held a number of leading operational finance roles across different business units at Johnson & Johnson, most recently as vice president, Ventures and Business Development, a role he assumed in 2004. He also led the business development function for J&J's over-the-counter drug company, McNeil Consumer Products. In addition, he was CFO for the Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Division and vice president, business development for J&J Corporation.
 
     Piacquad holds a B.A. in philosophy from Colgate University, Hamilton, N.Y., and an M.B.A. in Finance from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.
     Prior to his position at The Medicines Company, Koehler was vice president and CFO at Vion Pharmaceuticals. Before that, he served as vice president, Finance Americas for the Knoll Pharmaceuticals Company, the U.S. pharmaceutical unit of BASF. While at BASF, he also spent four years as vice president, global finance and controller, based in Germany. He also held a number of divisional finance lead positions at Baxter International Inc. He began his career in the auditing profession with Arthur Andersen LLP. Koehler holds a B.A from Duke University, Durham, N.C. and an MBA from Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill. He is a Certified Public Accountant.
     Schering-Plough is a global science-based health care company with leading prescription, consumer and animal health products. Through internal research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough discovers, develops, manufactures and markets advanced drug therapies to meet important medical needs. Schering-Plough's vision is to earn the trust of the physicians, patients and customers served by its more than 32,000 people around the world.


