FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20060829120952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 29, 2006, Schering-Plough Corporation (the "Company") announced it has reached an agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and the U.S. Department of Justice to settle the previously disclosed investigation involving the Company's sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and programs (the "Massachusetts Investigation") (see "Massachusetts Investigation" in Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings of the Company's 2005 Form 10-K).
The agreement provides for an aggregate settlement amount of $435 million and is subject to court approval. Under the agreement, Schering Sales Corporation, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation, will plead guilty to one count of conspiracy to make false statements to the government and pay a criminal fine of $180 million, and Schering-Plough Corporation will pay $255 million to resolve civil aspects of the investigation.
In connection with the settlement, Schering-Plough Corporation will also sign an addendum to an existing corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The addendum will not affect Schering-Plough Corporation's ongoing business with any customers, including the federal government.
As previously disclosed, the Company had recorded a liability of $500 million related to the Massachusetts Investigation, the AWP investigations and AWP litigation by certain states (see "AWP Investigations" and the litigation by certain states described under "AWP Litigation" in Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings of the Company's 2005 Form 10-K). The settlement amount of $435 million relates only to the Massachusetts Investigation. The AWP investigations and litigation are ongoing.
The company believes the settlement of the Massachusetts Investigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or its business. As the agreement is subject to court approval, the company cannot predict the timing of the cash payments. At June 30, 2006, total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was approximately $5.2 billion. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments less total debt was approximately $2.3 billion at June 30, 2006. Following these payments, the Company expects that cash generated from operations and available cash and short-term investments will provide the Company with the ability to fund cash needs for the intermediate term.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE
Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
The information in this 8-K and the attached press release includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to the final resolution of the investigation and the impact of the settlement on Schering-Plough's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and business. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements, including the final resolution of the matters discussed in this 8-K, which includes court approval and Schering-Plough's compliance with the corporate integrity agreement; market forces; economic factors; product availability; patent and other intellectual property protection; current and future branded, generic or over-the-counter competition; the regulatory process; and any developments following regulatory approval, among other uncertainties. For further details about these and other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Item 1A. Risk Factors, in the Company's second quarter 10-Q.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1          
News Release          
Schering-Plough Corporation           2000 Galloping Hill Road           Kenilworth, New Jersey 07033-0530          
 
KENILWORTH, N.J., August 29, 2006  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) has reached an agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and the U.S. Department of Justice to settle the previously disclosed investigation involving the company's sales, marketing and clinical trial practices and programs. The agreement reached today resolves that investigation, which began prior to the arrival of the new management team.
     "Since April 2003 when new management joined Schering-Plough and launched its Action Agenda to transform the company, we have made great progress in building an organization that puts business integrity at the center of its work," said Brent Saunders, senior vice president, Global Compliance and Business Practices, Schering-Plough Corporation. "With this agreement, we are putting issues from the past behind us. It is another step as we transform Schering-Plough into a high-performance competitor for the long term."
     The agreement provides for an aggregate settlement amount of $435 million and is subject to court approval. Under the agreement, Schering Sales Corporation, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough Corporation, will plead guilty to one count of conspiracy to make false
 
statements to the government and pay a criminal fine of $180 million, and Schering-Plough Corporation will pay $255 million to resolve civil aspects of the investigation.
     The company's previously disclosed litigation reserves will be sufficient to cover the settlement amount under the agreement announced today.
     In connection with the settlement, Schering-Plough Corporation will also sign an addendum to an existing corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The addendum will not affect Schering-Plough Corporation's ongoing business with any customers, including the federal government.
SCHERING-PLOUGH DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to the final resolution of the investigation and the impact of the settlement on Schering-Plough's business. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements, including the final resolution of the matters discussed in this press release, which includes court approval and Schering-Plough's compliance with the corporate integrity agreement, among other uncertainties. For further details about these and other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Item 1A Risk Factors, in the company's second quarter 10-Q.
     Schering-Plough is a global science-based health care company with leading prescription, consumer and animal health products. Through internal research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough discovers, develops, manufactures and markets advanced drug therapies to meet important medical needs. Schering-Plough's vision is to earn the trust of the physicians, patients and customers served by its more than 32,000 people around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is .
www.schering-plough.com


