FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20070918154401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
The Schering-Plough Corporation Certificate of Incorporation was amended and restated on September 17, 2007 to reflect: (1) the automatic conversion of the 2004 mandatory convertible preferred stock issued into shares of common stock on September 14, 2007; and (2) the terms of the 2007 mandatory convertible preferred stock. Shareholder approval was not required for these actions.
The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 18, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
     The undersigned corporation certifies that it has adopted the following restated certificate of incorporation:
     FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Schering-Plough Corporation.
     SECOND: The Corporation is organized to engage in any activity within the purposes for which a corporation may be organized under the New Jersey Business Corporation Act.
     THIRD: The aggregate number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue shall be two billion four hundred fifty million (2,450,000,000) shares to consist of:
     FOURTH: The relative rights, preferences and limitations of each class and series are as follows:
 
 
     FIFTH: The Board of Directors may divide the Preferred Shares into classes or series or both and may determine or change the designation, number of shares, relative rights, preferences and limitations of any class or series except as otherwise provided herein.
     SIXTH: The address of the Corporation's current registered office is:
and the name of the Corporation's current registered agent at such address is Susan Ellen Wolf.
     SEVENTH: Neither the name "Schering" nor the name "Plough" shall be deleted from the name of the Corporation except by the affirmative vote, at a meeting at which a quorum is present, of the holders of at least a majority of the votes cast by the holders of all of the shares of the Corporation and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
     EIGHTH: The number of directors constituting the current Board of Directors is thirteen.
 
     NINTH: Board of Directors
(a) . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors which, subject to any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Shares of the Corporation ("Preferred Shares") then outstanding to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, shall consist of not less than nine (9) nor more than twenty-one (21) persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by either (i) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors or (ii) the shareholders, by the affirmative vote, at a meeting at which a quorum is present, of the holders of at least a majority of the votes cast by the holders of all of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Number, Election and Terms
At each annual meeting of shareholders, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
 
     TENTH: Shareholder Action
     Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Shares then outstanding, any action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such shareholders unless all of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon consent thereto in writing. This article may be altered, amended or adopted by the affirmative vote, at a meeting at which a quorum is present, of the holders of at least a majority of the votes cast by the holders of all of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
     ELEVENTH: Business Combinations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     TWELFTH: Anti-Greenmail
 
 
 
     THIRTEENTH: Limitation of Liability, Indemnification and Insurance
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned corporation has caused this certificate to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Corporation has complied with Section 10A(c), from and after the closing of the Reorganization Event, the Convertible Preferred Stock shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of such Holders shall cease and terminate, except the right of the Holders, upon surrender of certificates therefor, to receive such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to shares of Common Stock in the Make-Whole Acquisition and any other amounts to be paid hereunder.
 
or other securities issuable upon conversion and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion) by virtue of holding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
 
 
     (A) If the Corporation shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness, shares of capital stock, securities, cash or other assets (excluding any dividend or distribution referred to in Section 14(a)(i) or Section 14(a)(ii) hereof, any rights or warrants referred to in Section 14(a)(iii) hereof, any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash, any consideration payable in connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and any dividend of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit in the case of a Spin-Off referred to in Section 14(a)(iv)(B) below), each Fixed Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution will be increased by multiplying each Fixed Conversion Rate by the following fraction:
     Where,
     SP= the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the date fixed for distribution.
0
     FMV= the fair market value of the portion of the distribution applicable to one share of Common Stock as determined by the Board,
 
     Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this clause (iv)(A) of this Section 14(a) will become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution. In any case in which this clause (iv)(A) is applicable, clause (iv)(B) of this Section 14(a) shall not be applicable.
     (B) In the case of a Spin-Off, each Fixed Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the close of business on the record date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive that distribution will be increased by multiplying each Fixed Conversion Rate by the following fraction:
     Where,
     MP= the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the fifteenth Trading Day after the "ex-date" for the distribution.
0
     MPs= the Current Market Price of the shares representing the portion of distribution applicable to one share of Common Stock on the fifteenth Trading Day after the "ex-date" for the distribution.
     Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this clause (iv)(B) of this Section 14(a) will occur on the 15th Trading Day from, but excluding, the "ex-date" with respect to the Spin-Off.
 
     Where,
     SP = the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the "ex-date".
0
     DIV = the amount per share of Common Stock of the dividend or distribution.
     Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this clause (v) of this Section 14(a) will become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution.
     If an adjustment is required to be made as set forth in this clause (v) as a result of a distribution (1) that is a regularly scheduled quarterly dividend, such adjustment would be based on the amount by which such dividend exceeds the Dividend Threshold Amount or (2) that is not a regularly scheduled quarterly dividend, such adjustment would be based on the full amount of such distribution.
     The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to an inversely proportional adjustment whenever the Fixed Conversion Rates are adjusted, PROVIDED that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Fixed Conversion Rates pursuant to this clause (v) or clause (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii) or (viii) of this Section 14(a).
     Where,
     SP= the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the seventh Trading Day after the expiration of the tender or exchange offer.
0
     OS= the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the expiration of the tender or exchange offer, including any shares validly tendered and not withdrawn.
0
     AC= the aggregate cash and fair market value of the other consideration payable in the tender or exchange offer, as determined by the Board.
 
     TS= the number of shares of Common Stock validly tendered and not withdrawn at the expiration of the tender or exchange offer.
     Where,
     FMV = the fair market value of the aggregate consideration payable to all holders of the Common Stock based on the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of all shares validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the expiration of the offer, as determined by the Board.
     OS= the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the expiration of the offer, less all shares validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the expiration of the offer, as determined by the Board.
1
     SP= the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the seventh Trading Day after the expiration of the tender or exchange offer.
0
     OS= the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the expiration of the offer, including any tendered or exchanged shares.
0
     The adjustment referred to in this clause (vii) will only be made if (1) the tender offer or exchange offer is for an amount that increases the offeror's ownership of common stock to more than 30% of the total shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Offer Expiration Time; and (2) the cash and Fair Market Value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on the seventh Trading Day next succeeding the Offer Expiration Time.
     However, the adjustment referred to in this clause will not be made if as of the Offer Expiration Time, the offering documents disclose a plan or an intention to cause the Corporation to engage in a consolidation or merger or a sale of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets. In the event the offeror is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but such Person is permanently prevented by
 
applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, each Fixed Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to what would have been in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
 
     (A) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
     (B) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock or rights or warrants to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries;
     (C) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock were first issued;
     (D) for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock; or
     (E) for accrued, cumulated and unpaid dividends.
 
each share of Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be convertible into the kind of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the Conversion Date) (the "EXCHANGE PROPERTY") by a holder of Common Stock that (1) is not a person with which the Corporation consolidated or into which the Corporation merged or which merged into the Corporation or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such person, a "CONSTITUENT PERSON"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person, and (2) failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (PROVIDED that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof and in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("NON-ELECTING SHARE"), then, for the purpose of this Section 14(e) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by each Non-electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the Non-electing Shares). The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 7, 8, 9, 10 or 10A hereof shall be determined based upon the Conversion Rate in effect on such Conversion Date. The applicable Conversion Rate shall be (x) the Minimum Conversion Rate, in the case of an Early Conversion Date or a Provisional Conversion Date, and (y) determined based upon
 
the definition of Conversion Rate set forth in Sections 7, 10 or 10A, in the case of the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Date, or the Reorganization Conversion Date, respectively.
     After a Reorganization Event, "APPLICABLE MARKET VALUE" shall be deemed to refer to the Applicable Market Value of the Exchange Property and such value shall be determined (A) with respect to any publicly traded securities that compose all or part of the Exchange Property, the average of the Closing Prices of such securities on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date, (B) in the case of any cash that composes all or part of the Exchange Property, based on the amount of such cash and (C) in the case of any other property that composes all or part of the Exchange Property, based on the value of such property on the Third Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date, as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Corporation for this purpose. For purposes of this Section 14(e), the term "CLOSING PRICE" shall be deemed to refer to the closing sale price, last quoted bid price or mid-point of the last bid and ask prices, as the case may be, of any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property. For purposes of this Section 14(e), references to Common Stock in the definition of "TRADING DAY" shall be replaced by references to any publicly traded securities that comprise all or part of the Exchange Property.
     The above provisions of this Section 14(e) shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 14 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.
     The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 14(e).
 
 
 
 
     "ACCEPTED PURCHASED SHARES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a) (vii) hereof.
     "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor rule thereunder.
     "AGENT MEMBERS" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17(a) hereof.
     "APPLICABLE MARKET VALUE" means the average of the Closing Prices per share of the Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date.
     "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     "BUSINESS DAY" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or any other day on which banks in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
     "CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION" means the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended.
     "CLOSING PRICE" means, as of any date of determination, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price, of the Common Stock or any securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. If the Common Stock or any such securities distributed in a Spin-Off, as the case may be, is not then traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock or such securities on any date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such securities is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock or such securities is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock or such securities in the over-the-counter market as reported by the Pink Sheets LLC or similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock or such securities on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Corporation. For the purposes of this Certificate of Incorporation, all references herein to the closing sale price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service; PROVIDED that, in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange shall govern.
 
     "COMMON STOCK" as used in this Certificate of Incorporation means the Corporation's Common Shares, par value $0.50 per share, as the same exists at the date of filing of this Certificate of Incorporation, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Shares consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value. However, subject to the provisions of Section 14(e), shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock shall include only shares of the class designated as Common Shares of the Corporation at the date of the filing of this Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of New Jersey or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and which are not subject to redemption by the Corporation; PROVIDED that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
     "CONVERSION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a) hereof.
     "CONVERSION RATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
     "CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
     "CORPORATE TRUST OFFICE" means the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered.
     "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" per share of Common Stock or other securities on any date means the average of the daily Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days preceding the earlier of the day preceding the date in question and the day before the "ex date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, if applicable. The term "ex date," when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the Common Stock or other security trades without the right to receive the issuance or distribution. For the purposes of determining the adjustment to the Conversion Rate for the purposes of Section 14(a)(iv)(B) hereof the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock means the average of the Closing Prices over the first ten Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day following the "ex-date" for such distribution.
     "DEPOSITARY" means DTC or its nominee or any successor appointed by the Corporation.
     "DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE" means (i) the 15th calendar day of February, May, August and November of each year, or the following Business Day if such day is
 
not a Business Day, prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date and (ii) the Mandatory Conversion Date.
     "DIVIDEND PERIOD" means the period ending on the day before a Dividend Payment Date and beginning on the preceding Dividend Payment Date or, if there is no preceding Dividend Payment Date, on the first date of issuance of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
     "DIVIDEND THRESHOLD AMOUNT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(v) hereof.
     "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company.
     "EARLY CONVERSION" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a) hereof.
     "EARLY CONVERSION DATE" means the effective date of any conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 8 hereof.
     "EXCHANGE PROPERTY" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(e) hereof.
     "EXPIRATION TIME" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(vi) hereof.
     "FAIR MARKET VALUE" means (a) in the case of any Spin-Off, the fair market value of the portion of those shares of capital stock or similar equity interests so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock as of the fifteenth Trading Day after the "ex-date" for such Spin-Off, and (b) in all other cases the fair market value as determined in good faith by the Board, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board.
     "FIXED CONVERSION RATES" means the Maximum Conversion Rate and the Minimum Conversion Rate.
     "GLOBAL PREFERRED SHARE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17(a) hereof.
     "GLOBAL SHARES LEGEND" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17(a) hereof.
     "HOLDER" means the person in whose name the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation and the Transfer Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
     "INITIAL PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
 
     "JUNIOR SECURITIES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 hereof.
     "LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE" means, as to the Convertible Preferred Stock, $250 per share, as adjusted pursuant to the terms hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION" means the consummation of any acquisition (whether by means of a liquidation, share exchange, tender offer, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, merger of the Corporation or any sale, lease or other transfer of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries) or a series of related transactions or events pursuant to which 90% or more of the Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock are exchanged for, converted into or constitutes solely the right to receive cash, securities or other property more than 10% of which consists of cash, securities or other property that are not, or upon issuance will not be, shares of common equity or American depositary receipts in respect of common equity traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or Nasdaq Global Market.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION CONVERSION" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(a) hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION CONVERSION DATE" means the effective date of a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 10 hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION CONVERSION NOTICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(b) hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION CONVERSION PERIOD" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10(a) hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION CONVERSION RATE" means the conversion rate set forth in the table below for the applicable effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price (as Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices in the column headings for the table below are adjusted pursuant to Section 14 hereof):
     If the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $100.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof), then the Make-Whole Acquisition
 
Conversion Rate will be the Minimum Conversion Rate (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof). If the Make-Whole Acquisition Share Price is less than $10.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof), then the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Rate will be the Maximum Conversion Rate (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof).
     If the effective date falls between the dates set forth under the heading "Effective Date" in the table above, or if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price falls between two amounts set forth on the table above, the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Rate will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Rates set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and effective two dates, based on a 365-day year.
     The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14(f) hereof.
     "MAKE-WHOLE ACQUISITION STOCK PRICE" means the consideration paid per share of Common Stock in a Make-Whole Acquisition. If such consideration consists only of cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall equal the amount of cash paid per share. If such consideration consists of any property other than cash, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition.
     "MANDATORY CONVERSION DATE" means immediately prior to the close of business on August 13, 2010.
     "MANDATORY REORGANIZATION CONVERSION" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10A(a) hereof.
     "MAXIMUM CONVERSION RATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) (iii) hereof.
     "MINIMUM CONVERSION RATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b)(i) hereof.
     "NON-ELECTING SHARE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(e) hereof.
     "OFFER EXPIRATION TIME" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(vii) hereof.
     "OFFICER" means the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation.
     "OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE" means a certificate of the Corporation, signed by any duly authorized Officer of the Corporation.
 
     "PARITY SECURITIES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 hereof.
     "PERSON" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.
     "PREFERRED STOCK DIRECTOR" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
     "PROVISIONAL CONVERSION" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) hereof.
     "PROVISIONAL CONVERSION DATE" means the date fixed for conversion of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 9 hereof.
     "PROVISIONAL CONVERSION NOTICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(b) hereof.
     "PROVISIONAL CONVERSION NOTICE DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) hereof.
     "PURCHASED SHARES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(vi) hereof.
     "RECORD DATE" means the first Business Day of the calendar month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls.
     "RECORD HOLDER" means the Holder of record of the Convertible Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation at the close of business on a Record Date.
     "REGISTRAR" shall mean the Transfer Agent acting in its capacity as registrar for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
     "REORGANIZATION CONVERSION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10A(a) hereof.
     "REORGANIZATION CONVERSION NOTICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10A(b) hereof.
     "REORGANIZATION CONVERSION NOTICE DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10A(b) hereof.
     "REORGANIZATION EVENT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(e) hereof.
     "SENIOR SECURITIES" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 hereof.
 
     "SPIN-OFF" means a dividend or other distribution of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation.
     "THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
     "TRADING DAY" means a day on which the Common Stock:
     1. is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business; and
     2. has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.
     "TRANSFER AGENT" means The Bank of New York acting as transfer agent, Registrar, paying agent and conversion agent for the Convertible Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
     "TREASURY YIELD" means the yield to maturity at the time of computation of U.S. Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) that has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the Provisional Conversion Date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source for similar market data)) most nearly equal to the then remaining term through and including the Mandatory Conversion Date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the then remaining term through and including the Mandatory Conversion Date is not equal to the constant maturity of a U.S. Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Yield shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of U.S. Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the then remaining term through and including the Mandatory Conversion Date is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used.


