FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20070723072427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Schering-Plough today issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for Second Quarter of 2007" and provided additional supplemental financial data. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K. The supplemental financial data is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this 8-K.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated July 23, 2007 titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for Second Quarter of 2007"
99.2 Supplemental Financial Data
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1
KENILWORTH, N.J., July 23, 2007  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2007 and commented on its planned acquisition of Organon BioSciences N.V. (OBS) including its Organon human health business and Intervet animal health business, as announced March 12, 2007.
          "Schering-Plough's second quarter performance shows clearly that we have sustained our momentum," said Fred Hassan, chairman and CEO. "Our strategy to grow the top line is succeeding  we have now recorded our 11 consecutive quarter of double-digit adjusted sales growth. Our strong top-line growth combined with financial discipline have produced superior EPS growth. We are advancing and expanding our research pipeline. And we look forward to adding Organon BioSciences to our company."
th
          For the 2007 second quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $517 million or 34 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. The results include charges of $106 million or 7 cents per share related to a $60 million upfront licensing payment and $46 million in items related to the planned OBS acquisition. Excluding those charges, earnings per share for the 2007 second quarter would have been 41 cents (see table below). For the 2006 second quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income of $237 million or 16 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. Excluding charges of $138 million or 9 cents per share related to actions to streamline Schering-Plough's manufacturing operations as announced June 1, 2006 (see table below), Schering-Plough's income in the 2006 second quarter would have been $375 million or 25 cents per share.
          GAAP net sales for the 2007 second quarter totaled $3.2 billion, up 13 percent versus the 2006 second quarter. Including an adjustment of an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales (see table below), Schering-Plough's adjusted net sales (hereinafter referred to as "adjusted sales") for the 2007 second quarter would have totaled $3.8 billion, a 15 percent increase compared to $3.3 billion on a similar adjusted basis in the 2006 second quarter. Schering-Plough does not record
 
sales of its cholesterol joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck), as the venture is accounted for under the equity method.
          On the planned OBS acquisition, the company noted that the transaction remains subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. Hassan said, "We are making steady progress and continue to expect to close by year-end. We are moving carefully and deliberately to ensure that we execute this transaction the right way  to build strength and value for the long term."
          He added, "We are excited about the opportunities created by Organon in gynecology, fertility, anesthesia and neuroscience. In animal health, we see great potential in bringing together our product lines with those of Intervet." Schering-Plough's late-stage research pipeline will also be significantly strengthened with the addition of five Phase III compounds from Organon.
          "Overall, this combination offers a strong strategic fit, a strong scientific fit, and a strong financial fit. It's about becoming a company with greater balance in our businesses and an exciting and productive pipeline. As we prepare to complete this transaction, we are also being careful not to get distracted, knowing that sustaining the momentum in our business and research operations continues to be a top priority."
          Reviewing second quarter results, Hassan emphasized, "We're growing across a broad front. Seven out of our 10 largest-selling products, including VYTORIN and ZETIA, posted double-digit sales growth for the quarter," he said. "And even with the recent arrival of multi-source U.S. generic competition, our cholesterol franchise continues to be dynamic. In fact, VYTORIN and ZETIA are the only major cholesterol-lowering brands to have grown U.S. market share in 2007." The strategy to expand Schering-Plough's geographic presence is paying off, with higher sales in emerging markets. Also contributing to second quarter results were solid performances from the company's Animal Health and Consumer Health Care businesses.
          R&D remains a critical investment area for Schering-Plough as a research-based pharmaceutical company. "We are investing in internal innovation," said Hassan, "and we are bringing in external innovation. Together, they will be the engine that drives our future growth."
          Internally generated compounds include four that have been designated "fast-track" by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, a status granted to compounds with the potential to address serious unmet medical needs.
     Foremost among external initiatives is the planned acquisition of Organon and Intervet. In addition, the company recently entered into three agreements, including two for Phase III compounds, with:
 
            Commenting on Schering-Plough, Hassan said: "Today, we are at an exciting time for our company, for the colleagues with us now and those who will be joining us. The OBS acquisition will be an important step in the Build the Base phase of our Action Agenda. Our company has stayed the course with its six- to eight-year road map and our employees remain focused and engaged in shaping our future. Together with Organon and Intervet, we will become a stronger company, able to do more  for our customers, for our stakeholders and for the patients who are counting on us. Together, we will work to sustain the momentum of our businesses and deliver high performance for the long term."
Second Quarter 2007 Results
For the 2007 second quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $517 million or 34 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. The results include charges of $106 million or 7 cents per share related to a $60 million upfront licensing payment and $46 million in acquisition-related costs (consisting of a $35 million mark-to-market loss on a Euro-denominated currency option and integration planning costs of $11 million). Excluding those charges, earnings per share for the 2007 second quarter would have been 41 cents. For the 2006 second quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income of $237 million or 16 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. Excluding charges of $138 million or 9 cents per share related to actions to streamline Schering-Plough's manufacturing operations, Schering-Plough's income in the 2006 second quarter would have been $375 million or 25 cents per share.
          GAAP net sales for the 2007 second quarter totaled $3.2 billion, up 13 percent as compared to the second quarter of 2006. The sales growth versus 2006 reflects a 3 percent favorable impact from foreign exchange.
          Global cholesterol joint venture net sales, which include VYTORIN and ZETIA, totaled $1.2 billion in the 2007 second quarter, a 30 percent increase compared to net sales of $958 million in the comparable 2006 period. Schering-Plough does not record sales of its cholesterol joint venture with Merck as the venture is accounted for under the equity method. Including an adjustment of an assumed 50 percent of the global cholesterol joint venture net sales, Schering-Plough's adjusted sales for the 2007 second quarter would have been $3.8 billion, a 15 percent increase, compared to $3.3 billion on a similar adjusted basis in the 2006 second quarter.
 
     Overall, Schering-Plough shares in approximately 50 percent of the profits of the joint venture with Merck, although there are different profit-sharing arrangements for the cholesterol products in countries around the world. Schering-Plough records its share of the income from operations in "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture," which totaled $490 million in the 2007 second quarter versus $355 million in the second quarter of 2006. Schering-Plough noted that it incurs substantial costs such as selling, general and administrative costs that are not reflected in "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" and are borne by its overall cost structure. There is a separate co-marketing agreement with Bayer for ZETIA in Japan, where the product was launched in June 2007.
     Sales of REMICADE increased 28 percent to $394 million in the second quarter of 2007 due to continued market growth and expanded use across indications. REMICADE is a treatment for immune-mediated inflammatory disorders that Schering-Plough markets in countries outside the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets) for rheumatoid arthritis, early rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, Crohn's disease, pediatric Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
     Global sales of NASONEX, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for allergies, rose 22 percent to $295 million versus the 2006 period, with increased sales in the United States and international markets.
     Sales of PEGINTRON for hepatitis C increased 3 percent to $234 million in the 2007 second quarter due to higher sales in Latin America and Europe, and tempered by lower sales in the United States and Japan.
     Global sales of CLARINEX, a nonsedating antihistamine, in the second quarter of 2007 were $250 million compared to $226 million in the prior period. International sales of prescription CLARITIN were $102 million in the second quarter compared to 2006 sales of $104 million.
     Sales of TEMODAR, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, grew 26 percent to $216 million due primarily to increased sales in international markets. The growth rate for TEMODAR is expected to moderate as significant penetration in U.S. and EU markets has already been achieved for this product. Also reporting higher sales in the quarter was CAELYX, up 23 percent to $65 million.
     Among other prescription products posting higher sales in the 2007 second quarter was the antibiotic AVELOX, up 30 percent to $75 million, primarily as a result of increased market share.
     Consumer Health Care sales were $394 million in the 2007 second quarter, up 13 percent versus the 2006 period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales of OTC CLARITIN and MiraLAX, which was launched in February 2007 as the first Rx-to-OTC switch in the laxative category in more than 30 years.
 
          Animal Health sales increased 10 percent to $264 million, reflecting solid growth internationally, led by the poultry, companion animal, aquaculture and swine product lines, coupled with a positive impact from foreign currency exchange rates.
          Schering-Plough incurs substantial costs such as selling, general and administrative costs that are not reflected in "Equity income from cholesterol joint venture" and are borne by the overall cost structure of Schering-Plough. As a result, Schering-Plough's gross margin and ratios of selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and R&D expenses as a percentage of sales do not reflect the benefit of the impact of the cholesterol joint venture's operating results.
          Schering-Plough's gross margin was 69.3 percent for the 2007 second quarter as compared to 64.4 percent in the 2006 period on a GAAP basis. Gross margin in the 2006 second quarter would have been 66.4 percent when excluding $58 million in charges related to actions to streamline Schering-Plough's manufacturing operations. The gross margin improvement was due primarily to improved product mix and cost savings from the 2006 manufacturing streamlining actions. Additionally, Schering-Plough continues to achieve greater production efficiencies and process improvements through its "Right First Time" initiative.
          SG&A expenses were $1.4 billion in the second quarter of 2007, up 11 percent versus $1.2 billion in the prior year period. SG&A in the second quarter of 2007 increased primarily due to increased promotional spending.
          Research and development spending for the 2007 second quarter increased to $696 million compared to $539 million in the second quarter of 2006. Included in R&D spending in the second quarter of 2007 was $60 million related to an upfront payment made for a licensing transaction (Novacea) that closed in the second quarter. The increase in R&D expenses was also due to higher spending for clinical trials and related activities, and investments to build greater breadth and capacity to support Schering-Plough's progressing pipeline.
Recent Developments
The company also offered the following summary of recent significant developments that have previously been announced, including:
 
 
Second Quarter 2007 Conference Call and Webcast
Schering-Plough will conduct a conference call today at 8 a.m. (EDT) to review the 2007 second quarter results. To listen live to the call, dial 1-877-565-9664 or 1-706-634-5003 and enter conference ID #3320866. A replay of the call will be available beginning later on July 23 through 5 p.m. on Aug. 20. To listen to the replay, dial 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 and enter the conference ID #3320866. A live audio webcast of the conference call also will be available by going to the Investor Relations section of the Schering-Plough corporate Web site, www.schering-plough.com, and clicking on the "Presentations/Webcasts" link. A replay of the webcast will be available starting on July 23 through 5 p.m. on Aug. 20.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release, the comments of Schering-Plough officers during the earnings teleconference/webcast on July 23, 2007, beginning at 8 a.m. (EDT), and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and are based on current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "project," "intend," "plan," "potential," "will," and other similar words and terms. In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to the company's plans; its strategies; its progress under the Action Agenda and anticipated timing regarding future performance of the Action Agenda; business prospects; anticipated growth; timing and conditions of regulatory approvals and expected synergies related to the Organon BioSciences acquisition; ability to access the capital markets on optimal terms; prospective products or product approvals; trends in performance; anticipated timing of clinical trials and its impact on R&D spending; anticipated exclusivity periods; actions to enhance clinical, R&D, manufacturing and post-marketing systems; and the potential of certain products including VYTORIN and ZETIA. Actual results may vary materially from the company's forward-looking statements, and there are no guarantees about the performance of Schering-Plough stock or Schering-Plough's business. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, including, among other uncertainties market forces; economic factors such as interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; obtaining regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions for the Organon BioSciences acquisition; the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations; product availability; patent and other intellectual property protection; current and future branded, generic or over-the-counter competition; the regulatory process (including product approvals, labeling and post-marketing actions); and scientific developments relating to marketed products or pipeline projects. For further details of these and other risks and uncertainties that may impact forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in the company's first quarter 2007 10-Q.
          Schering-Plough is a global science-based health care company with leading prescription, consumer and animal health products. Through internal research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough discovers, develops, manufactures and markets advanced drug therapies to meet important medical needs. Schering-Plough's vision is to earn the trust of the physicians, patients and customers served by its approximately 33,500 people around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is .
www.schering-plough.com
 
Report for the second quarter ended June 30 (unaudited): (Amounts in millions, except per share figures)
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the period ended June 30 (unaudited):
(Dollars in millions)
GAAP Net Sales by Key Product
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted net sales, defined as net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales.
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures
Net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share, excluding specified items
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures
Specified items related to manufacturing changes Three months ended June 30, 2006 (unaudited) (Dollars in millions)
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures Three months ended June 30, 2006 (unaudited) (Dollars in millions, except per share figures)
NOTE: Gross margin, net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per share excluding specified items related to manufacturing changes are non-U.S. GAAP measures used by management in evaluating the performance of Schering-Plough's overall business. These specified items have been excluded as Schering-Plough does not consider these charges to be indicative of continuing operating results. Schering-Plough believes that these performance measures contribute to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company. Gross margin, net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per share, as reported, are required to be presented under U.S. GAAP.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
 
The results of the operation of the joint venture are reflected in equity income. As a result, Schering-Plough's gross margin and ratios of selling, general and administrative expenses and R&D expenses as a percentage of sales do not reflect the benefit of the impact of the cholesterol joint venture's operating results.
Schering-Plough utilizes the equity method of accounting for the joint venture. The cholesterol agreements provide for the sharing of operating income based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In the U.S. market, Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits on the first $300 million of annual ZETIA sales. Above $300 million of annual ZETIA sales, the companies share profits equally. Schering-Plough's allocation of joint venture income is increased by milestones earned. Further, either partner's share of the joint venture's operating income is subject to a reduction if the partner fails to perform a specified minimum number of physician details in a particular country. The partners agree annually to the minimum number of physician details by country.
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.


