FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20070910173059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
Schering-Plough Corporation from time to time issues Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) that are believed to be of interest to investors. The most recent FAQs, dated September 10, 2007, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K and are posted on the Schering-Plough Website at www.schering-plough.com under "Investor Relations/Investor FAQs."
Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the FAQs and readers should note the date of information when referring to the FAQs or other historical information available on the website.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 September 10, 2007 Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
Susan Ellen Wolf Corporate Secretary, Vice President  Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel
By: /s/ Susan Ellen Wolf
Date: September 10, 2007
 
Exhibit Index

 
Exhibit 99.1
September 10, 2007  Frequently Asked Questions and Answers  (FAQ's)
From time to time, Investor Relations will provide FAQs on various topics of interest. The following is a compilation of recent FAQs related to the Company's financing plans for the Organon BioSciences acquisition.
 
The information in this frequently asked questions document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to the company's plans and strategies; its plans for financing the acquisition of Organon BioSciences; the timing of its debt issuance; its ability to access capital markets; and the timing and conditions of regulatory approvals. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements, including among other uncertainties, market forces; economic factors such as such as interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; inaccurate assumptions; the ability to obtain regulatory approvals; and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions for the Organon BioSciences acquisition. For further details about these and other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in the company's second quarter 2007 10-Q.
SCHERING-PLOUGH DISCLOSURE NOTICE:


