FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20080103140502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Effective January 2, 2008, the Board of Directors of Schering-Plough Corporation elected Dr. Craig B. Thompson as a member of the Board of Directors.
A press release dated January 3, 2008 related to Dr. Thompson's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
By: /s/ Susan Ellen Wolf
 
Susan Ellen Wolf Corporate Secretary, Vice President  Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel
Date: January 3, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
KENILWORTH, N.J., Jan. 3, 2008  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today announced that its Board had elected Dr. Craig B. Thompson as a member of its Board of Directors, effective Jan. 2, 2008. Dr. Thompson is Director of the Abramson Cancer Center and Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia.
     Dr. Thompson is an independent director under both the New York Stock Exchange standards and the more restrictive Schering-Plough Board independence standards.
     Dr. Thompson, 54, earned an M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and an AB from Dartmouth College. He chairs the Medical Advisory Board at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, serves on the advisory boards of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, and participates in a number of other professional and civic activities.
     "Craig's perspective as a scientist and physician will add significant strength to our work as a Board," said Patricia F. Russo, Chair of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. "We are pleased to continue to increase the collective knowledge of the Board with this new member."
     "Craig brings deep experience to our Board in the fields of medicine, medical research and fighting cancer, an important priority for humankind. This additional strength on the Board is critical as we continue to increase Schering-Plough's science-focus during our progression along our Action Agenda to transform Schering-Plough into a high-performance, global competitor for the long term," said Fred Hassan, Schering-Plough chairman and chief executive officer.
     Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven, science-centered global health care company. Through its own biopharmaceutical research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough creates therapies that help save and improve lives around the world. The company applies its research-and-development platform to human prescription and consumer products as well as to animal health products. In November 2007, Schering-Plough acquired Organon BioSciences, with its Organon human health and Intervet animal health businesses, marking a pivotal step in the company's ongoing transformation. Schering-Plough's vision is to "Earn Trust, Every Day" with
 
the doctors, patients, customers and other stakeholders served by its approximately 50,000 people around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is .
www.schering-plough.com


