FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20080922112429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Schering-Plough Corporation from time to time issues Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) that are believed to be of interest to investors. The most recent FAQ, dated September 22, 2008, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K and is posted on the Schering-Plough Website at www.schering-plough.com under "Investor Relations/Investor FAQs."
Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the FAQs and readers should take note of the date of information when referring to the FAQs or other historical information available on the website.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 22, 2008
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
September 22, 2008 - Frequently Asked Questions and Answers  (FAQs)
From time to time, Investor Relations will provide FAQs on various topics of interest. The following is a compilation of recent FAQs.
What are the IMS prescription volumes for VYTORIN and ZETIA?
U.S. Total Prescription Volume (000's)
Source: IMS' as of September 17, 2008, which includes routine refinements by IMS to previously published data.
National Prescription Audit Plus (NPA+)
What is the status of the clinical development program for boceprevir?
Schering-Plough previously announced the initiation of two large Phase III studies of boceprevir, its investigational oral hepatitis C protease inhibitor, in patients chronically infected with hepatitis C virus genotype 1. Patient enrollment is currently underway and the first patient has been dosed in the Phase III program. The two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III studies will evaluate the efficacy of boceprevir in combination with PEGINTRON(TM) (peginterferon alfa-2b) and REBETOL(R) (ribavirin, USP) compared to standard of care with PEGINTRON and REBETOL alone.
In early August 2008, Schering-Plough reported top-line results from a planned interim analysis of a Phase II study of boceprevir. The press release announcing these results can be found on the Schering-Plough website at http://www.sgp.com/schering_plough/news/release.jsp?releaseID=1182855.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in the frequently asked questions included in this FAQ, and in other written and oral statements about Schering-Plough and its business made by Schering-Plough or its officers from time to time, includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to prescription trends for VYTORIN and ZETIA.
Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements, including market forces (such as customer buying patterns); economic factors; product availability; patent and other intellectual property protection; current and future branded, generic or over-the-counter competition; the timing and outcomes of the regulatory process; the timing and outcomes of clinical trials; and prescriber, patient and media reaction to data obtained from post-marketing clinical trials, among other uncertainties. For further details about these and other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in the second quarter 2008 10-Q filed August 1, 2008.


