FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20090421063713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
Schering-Plough today issued a press release titled "Schering-Plough Reports Financial Results for 2009 First Quarter" and provided additional supplemental financial data. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K. The supplemental financial data is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this 8-K.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Schering-Plough Corporation
Date: April 21, 2009
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
SCHERING-PLOUGH REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2009 FIRST QUARTER
Transformed Company Delivers Solid Financial Performance, Continues to Advance Industry-Leading Late-Stage Pipeline
KENILWORTH, N.J., April 21, 2009  Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP) today reported financial results for the 2009 first quarter.
          "Schering-Plough powered through to deliver a solid performance in the first quarter," said Fred Hassan, chairman and CEO. "We overcame difficult currency comparisons and challenges in the U.S. by driving operational sales growth in overseas markets and the continuing successful implementation of our Productivity Transformation Program.
          "The people of Schering-Plough can take pride in executing a remarkable transformation of this company over the past six years of our Action Agenda, including the successful acquisition of Organon BioSciences," said Hassan. "They triumphed over the huge challenges we faced in 03 and 04, and then again in 08."
          Looking ahead to the company's planned merger with Merck announced on March 9, Hassan said, "We remain focused on driving our business. We will continue to implement our basic strategy: Grow the top line, grow the pipeline, reduce costs and invest wisely."
          For the 2009 first quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $767 million or 46 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. Earnings per common share for the 2009 first quarter would have been 56 cents on earnings of $936 million on a reconciled basis, which excludes purchase accounting adjustments related to the OBS acquisition and special, merger and acquisition-related items. For the 2008 first quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $276 million or 17 cents per common share on a GAAP basis and earnings of 53 cents per common share on a reconciled basis.
          GAAP net sales for the 2009 first quarter totaled $4.4 billion, down 6 percent as compared to the first quarter of 2008, reflecting 4 percent operational growth and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of 10 percent. Net sales of the global cholesterol joint venture, which include
 
VYTORIN and ZETIA, totaled $931 million in the 2009 first quarter. Schering-Plough does not record sales of its cholesterol joint venture with Merck as the venture is accounted for under the equity method. Including an adjustment of an assumed 50 percent of the global cholesterol joint venture net sales, Schering-Plough's adjusted net sales for the 2009 first quarter would have been $4.9 billion.
          "We are gratified that we were able to drive both operational sales growth and reconciled earnings growth, in the midst of a severe global recession," said Hassan. "And at a time when regulatory approvals for new chemical entities are scarce, we achieved the first major market approval of SIMPONI (golimumab)  one of our Five Stars'  in Canada earlier this month. These accomplishments show the strength of our strategies, and the strength of our execution."
          Schering-Plough's operations are becoming more efficient and cost-effective through the company's Productivity Transformation Program (PTP), launched in April 2008. PTP is expected to realize annualized savings of $1.5 billion by the end of 2012. The company is on track to achieve this savings target.
          Schering-Plough's transformation over the past six years is evidenced by the following achievements:
First Quarter 2009 Results
For the 2009 first quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available to common shareholders of $767 million or 46 cents per common share on a GAAP basis. Earnings per common share for the 2009 first quarter would have been 56 cents on earnings of $936 million on a reconciled basis, which excludes purchase accounting adjustments related to the OBS acquisition and special, merger and acquisition-related items. For the 2008 first quarter, Schering-Plough reported net income available
 
to common shareholders of $276 million or 17 cents per common share on a GAAP basis and earnings of 53 cents per common share on a reconciled basis.
          GAAP net sales for the 2009 first quarter totaled $4.4 billion, down 6 percent as compared to the first quarter of 2008, reflecting 4 percent operational growth and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of 10 percent.
          Net sales of the cholesterol franchise, which include sales of the cholesterol joint venture plus sales recorded by Schering-Plough in non-joint venture territories such as Japan and Latin America, declined 21 percent in the first quarter of 2009 to $973 million, reflecting a 17 percent operational decrease and a 4 percent unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Sales declined 30 percent in the U.S. In international markets, sales declined 2 percent, reflecting operational growth of 11 percent and a 13 percent unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. ZETIA in Japan, sold under a co-marketing agreement with Bayer, contributed $30 million to cholesterol franchise sales in the 2009 period.
          Sales of Prescription Pharmaceuticals for the 2009 first quarter decreased 5 percent to $3.4 billion, reflecting operational growth of 5 percent and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of 10 percent.
          Sales of REMICADE increased 2 percent (22 percent operational growth offset by 20 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) to $518 million in the first quarter of 2009 due to continued market growth and expanded penetration in certain indications. REMICADE, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, is marketed by Schering Plough in countries outside the U.S. (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets) for rheumatoid arthritis, early rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, Crohn's disease, pediatric Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
          Global sales of NASONEX, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for allergies, totaled $306 million in the 2009 first quarter (8 percent operational growth offset by 8 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) as compared to $307 million in the first quarter of 2008. Strong international sales were offset by lower sales in the U.S. compared to the 2008 period.
          Sales of TEMODAR, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, increased 5 percent (16 percent operational growth offset by 11 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) to $247 million, with higher sales in both the U.S. and international market, excluding foreign exchange.
          Sales of PEGINTRON for hepatitis C decreased 4 percent (2 percent operational growth offset by 6 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) to $216 million in the 2009 first quarter, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and lower sales in the U.S.
          In women's health care, sales of FOLLISTIM/PUREGON, a fertility treatment, decreased 10 percent (1 percent operational decrease and 9 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) to $131 million as compared to the first quarter of 2008. Sales of NUVARING, a contraceptive product, in the first quarter of 2009 grew 19 percent (27 percent operational growth offset by 8 percent unfavorable
 
foreign exchange impact) to $115 million as compared to $96 million in the first quarter of 2008, primarily due to growth in the U.S.
          Global sales of CLARINEX, a nonsedating antihistamine, were $174 million, a decrease of 19 percent (9 percent operational decrease and 10 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) as compared to the first quarter of 2008.
          Sales of prescription CLARITIN were $132 million, a 3 percent increase (6 percent operational growth offset by 3 percent unfavorable foreign exchange impact) compared to sales of $128 million in the first quarter of 2008.
          Animal Health sales totaled $630 million in the 2009 first quarter, a 13 percent decrease as compared to $723 million in the first quarter of 2008. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 13 percent, Animal Health sales would have been roughly flat as compared to the first quarter of 2008.
          Consumer Health Care sales were $384 million in the 2009 first quarter, up 2 percent versus the 2008 period. The increase was primirly due to higher sales of OTC MIRALAX and the launch of CLARITIN LIQUI-GELS.
          Overall, Schering-Plough shares in approximately 50 percent of the profits of the joint venture with Merck, although there are different profit-sharing arrangements for the cholesterol products in countries around the world. Schering-Plough records its share of the income from operations in "Equity income," which totaled $400 million in the 2009 first quarter, as compared to $517 million in the first quarter of 2008.
          Schering-Plough does not record sales of its cholesterol joint venture and incurs substantial costs such as selling, general and administrative costs that are not reflected in "Equity income" and are borne by the overall cost structure of Schering-Plough. As a result, Schering-Plough's gross margin and ratios of selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and R&D expenses as a percentage of sales do not reflect the benefit of the impact of the cholesterol joint venture's operating results.
          Schering-Plough's gross margin on a GAAP basis was unfavorably affected by purchase accounting adjustments and totaled 68.2 percent for the 2009 first quarter as compared to 54.1 percent in the 2008 period. Excluding purchase accounting adjustments, the gross margin percentage increased to 71.0 percent for the first quarter of 2009 as compared to 68.9 percent for the first quarter of 2008, primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign exchange.
          SG&A expenses were $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2009, an 11 percent decrease versus the first quarter of 2008 primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange and PTP actions.
          Research and development spending for the 2009 first quarter totaled $804 million, a 9 percent decline due to PTP actions, the impact of foreign exchange and the timing of clinical trials and related activities.
 
Update on Merger with Merck
The previously announced merger with Merck remains on track. Merger pre-integration planning teams have been established at both Schering-Plough and Merck, and these teams have been meeting collaboratively in order to plan for a smooth and effective integration. Until the merger closes, both companies will continue to operate independently. The transaction is subject to approval by Schering-Plough and Merck shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, including expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, as well as clearance by the European Commission under the EC Merger Regulation and certain other foreign jurisdictions.
Recent Developments
The company also offered the following summary of recent significant developments that have previously been announced, including:
 
First Quarter 2009 Conference Call and Webcast
Schering-Plough will conduct a conference call today at 7:30 a.m. (EDT) to review the 2009 first quarter results. To listen live to the call, dial 1-877-565-9664 or 1-706-634-5003 and enter conference ID # 87621385. A replay of the call will be available beginning later on April 21 through 5 p.m. on April 28. To listen to the replay, dial 1-800-642-1687 or 1-706-645-9291 and enter the conference ID # 87621385. A live audio webcast of the conference call also will be available by going to the Investor Relations section of the Schering-Plough corporate Web site, www.schering-plough.com, and clicking on the "Presentations/Webcasts" link. A replay of the webcast will be available starting on April 21 through 5 p.m. on May 21.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in this press release, the comments of Schering-Plough officers during the earnings teleconference/webcast on April 21, 2009, beginning at 7:30 a.m. (EDT), and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the company may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and are based on current expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "project," "intend," "plan," "potential," "will," and other similar words and terms. In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to the company's plans; its strategies; its progress under the Action Agenda and anticipated timing regarding future performance of the Action Agenda; business prospects; anticipated growth; timing and level of savings achieved from the Productivity Transformation Program; prospective products or product approvals; trends in performance; anticipated timing of clinical trials and its impact on R&D spending; anticipated exclusivity periods; the potential of products and trending in therapeutic markets, including the cholesterol market; and statements about the timing and potential benefits of the proposed merger between Merck and Schering-Plough and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may vary materially from the company's forward-looking statements, and there are no guarantees about the performance
 
of Schering-Plough stock or Schering-Plough's business. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
A number of risks and uncertainties could cause results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, including, among other uncertainties, market viability of the company's (and the cholesterol joint venture's) marketed and pipeline products; market forces; economic factors such as interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations; product availability; patent and other intellectual property protection; current and future branded, generic or over-the-counter competition; the regulatory process (including product approvals, labeling and post-marketing actions); scientific developments relating to marketed products or pipeline projects; media and societal reaction to such developments; and the ability of Schering-Plough and Merck to obtain governmental and self-regulatory organization approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule. For further details of these and other risks and uncertainties that may impact forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in the 2008 10-K, filed February 27, 2009.
Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven, science-centered global health care company. Through its own biopharmaceutical research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough creates therapies that help save and improve lives around the world. The company applies its research-and-development platform to human prescription, animal health and consumer health care products. Schering-Plough's vision is to "Earn Trust, Every Day" with the doctors, patients, customers and other stakeholders served by its colleagues around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is www.schering-plough.com.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
U.S. GAAP report for the first quarter ended March 31 (unaudited): (Amounts in millions, except per share figures)
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Common Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amounts in Millions, except per share figures)
To supplement its consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), Schering-Plough is providing the supplemental financial information below and on the following pages to reflect "As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share. "As Reconciled" amounts exclude the effects of purchase accounting adjustments, special, merger and acquisition-related items and other specified items.
"As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share are non-U.S. GAAP measures used by management in evaluating the performance of Schering-Plough's overall business. The effects of purchase accounting adjustments, special, merger and acquisition-related items and other specified items have been excluded from Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share as management of Schering-Plough does not consider these items to be indicative of continuing operating results. Schering-Plough believes that these "As Reconciled" performance measures contribute to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company and enhance investor understanding of items that impact the comparability of results between fiscal periods. Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share, as reported, are required to be presented under U.S. GAAP.
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Common Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amounts in Millions, except per share figures)
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Common Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amounts in Millions)
"As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share reflect the following adjustments:
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Report for the period ended March 31 (unaudited):
GAAP Net Sales by Key Product
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted net sales, defined as Net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales.
 
NOTE: Adjusted net sales, defined as net sales plus an assumed 50 percent of global cholesterol joint venture net sales, is a non-U.S. GAAP measure used by management in evaluating the performance of Schering-Plough's overall business. Schering-Plough believes that this performance measure contributes to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company. Schering-Plough provides this information to supplement the reader's understanding of the importance to the company of its share of results from the operations of the cholesterol joint venture. Net sales (excluding the cholesterol joint venture net sales) is required to be presented under U.S. GAAP. The cholesterol joint venture's net sales are included as a component of income from operations in the calculation of Schering-Plough's "Equity income." Net sales of the cholesterol joint venture do not include net sales of cholesterol products in non-joint venture territories.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
 
The results of the operation of the joint venture are reflected in Equity income. As a result, Schering-Plough's Gross margin and ratios of Selling, general and administrative expenses and R&D expenses as a percentage of sales do not reflect the benefit of the impact of the cholesterol joint venture's operating results.
Schering-Plough utilizes the equity method of accounting in recording its share of activity from the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture. Schering-Plough's Net sales do not include the sales of the joint venture. The cholesterol joint venture agreements provide for the sharing of operating income generated by the joint venture based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. Equity income also includes milestone and other payments. Either company's share of the joint venture's income from operations is subject to a reduction if that company fails to perform a specified minimum number of physician details in a particular country. The companies agree annually to the minimum number of physician details by country.
In the U.S. market, Schering-Plough receives a greater share of profits on the first $300 million of annual ZETIA sales. As such, Schering-Plough's share of operating income from the joint venture in the first fiscal quarter is generally higher than subsequent quarters.
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding. Percentages based on unrounded figures.
 
 
 
     All figures rounded. Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amount in Millions, except per share figures)
To supplement its consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), Schering-Plough is providing the following supplemental financial information to reflect "As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share. "As Reconciled" amounts exclude the effects of purchase accounting adjustments, special, merger and acquisition-related items and other specified items.
"As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share are non-U.S. GAAP measures used by management in evaluating the performance of Schering-Plough's overall business. The effects of purchase accounting adjustments, special, merger and acquisition-related items and other specified items have been excluded from Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share as management of Schering-Plough does not consider these items to be indicative of continuing operating results. Schering-Plough believes that these "As Reconciled" performance measures contribute to a more complete understanding by investors of the overall results of the company and enhances investor understanding of items that impact the comparability of results between fiscal periods. Net income available to common shareholders and Diluted earnings per common share, as reported, are required to be presented under U.S. GAAP.
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amount in Millions, except per share figures)
 
 
SCHERING-PLOUGH CORPORATION
Reconciliation from Reported Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share to As Reconciled Amounts for Net Income Available to Common Shareholders and Diluted Earnings per Common Share (Amounts in millions)
"As Reconciled" amounts related to Net income available to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share reflect the following adjustments:
 


