FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20090120172742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Schering-Plough Corporation from time to time issues Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (FAQs) that are believed to be of interest to investors. The most recent FAQ, dated January 20, 2009, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K.
Schering-Plough undertakes no obligation to update the FAQs and readers should take note of the date of information when referring to the FAQs or other historical information available on the website.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 20, 2009 
 
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
January 20, 2009  Frequently Asked Questions and Answers  (FAQs)
From time to time, Investor Relations will provide FAQs on various topics of interest. The following is a recent FAQ.
Q            What are the IMS prescription volumes for VYTORIN and ZETIA?
A            U.S. Total Prescription Volume (000's)
Source: IMS' as of January 14, 2009 which includes routine refinements by IMS to previously published data.
National Prescription Audit Plus (NPA+)
Although future prescription volumes may fluctuate up or down in the normal course of business due to competitive actions, gain or loss of individual managed care contracts, promotional activities by the Merck/Schering-Plough cholesterol joint venture, and other factors, Schering-Plough notes that total prescription volumes for the cholesterol franchise in the U.S. are generally stabilizing. As a result, Schering-Plough will no longer report prescription volumes on a monthly basis.
DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information in the frequently asked questions included in this FAQ, and in other written and oral statements about Schering-Plough and its business made by Schering-Plough or its officers from time to time, includes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to prescription trends for VYTORIN and ZETIA. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. Schering-Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Schering-Plough's forward-looking statements, including market forces (such as customer buying patterns); economic factors; product availability; patent and other intellectual property protection; current and future branded, generic or over-the-counter competition; the timing and outcomes of the regulatory process; the timing and outcomes of clinical trials; and prescriber, patient and media reaction to data obtained from post-marketing clinical trials, among other uncertainties. For further details about these and other factors that may impact the forward-looking statements, see Schering-Plough's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in the third quarter 2008 10-Q, filed October 29, 2008.


