FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20090903125522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS WITH CERTAIN OFFICERS.
The Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 8, 2009 among Schering-Plough Corporation ("Schering-Plough"), Merck & Co., Inc. ("Merck"), and several subsidiaries of Schering-Plough, provides that Schering-Plough will survive as the publicly traded parent company (called "Merck" after closing) in connection with the mergers contemplated by that agreement. Section 1.4 of that agreement covers membership on the board of the combined company and provides that the Schering-Plough board shall take all action necessary to:
(i) cause all of the directors of Schering-Plough (other than three (3) directors designated by Schering-Plough and reasonably satisfactory to Merck) to resign as directors; and
(ii) elect as directors of the combined company the persons who are members of the board of directors of Merck and such other persons as Merck shall designate in writing to Schering-Plough prior to the closing (who, together with the Schering-Plough directors not resigning in accordance with clause (i) above, shall be the sole directors of the combined company)
As noted in the attached joint press release issued by Merck and Schering-Plough dated September 3, 2009, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this 8-K, the following Schering-Plough directors have been designated to remain on the board upon completion of the merger:
Age 64, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3Stone Advisors LLC (private investment firm) since August 2006 and Chairman of Chrysler Group LLC since June 2009.
C. ROBERT KIDDER,
Mr. Kidder was a Principal of Stonehenge Partners, Inc. (private investment firm) from April 2004 to July 2006. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Borden, Inc. from 1995 to 2003. He was also a Founding Partner of Borden Capital Management Partners. Prior to that, he was at Duracell International Inc. from 1980 to 1994, assuming the role of President and Chief Executive Officer in 1984.
Prior History:
Morgan Stanley (since 1993) and Chrysler Group LLC (since June 2009)
Other Directorships:
Board of Trustees of Columbus Nationwide Children's Hospital, President of Wexner Center Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Ohio University.
Other:
Director, member of the Compensation Committee, and member of the Finance Committee, all since 2005
Schering-Plough Service:
Among many qualifications, Mr. Kidder brings expertise in finance and capital markets, strategic matters, and manufacturing quality processes, as well as significant experience as a senior executive and director of major complex global companies.
Expertise and Qualifications:
Age 57, Former Chief Executive Officer and Director of Alcatel-Lucent (communications company) from December 2006 through August 2008.
PATRICIA F. RUSSO,
Ms. Russo served as Chairman from 2003 to 2006 and Chief Executive Officer from 2002 to 2006 of Lucent Technologies Inc. Ms. Russo was President and Chief Operating Officer of Eastman Kodak Company from April 2001 and Director from July 2001, and Chairman of Avaya Inc. since December 2000, until she rejoined Lucent in January 2002. Ms. Russo was Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Service Provider Networks business of Lucent from November 1999 to August 2000 and served as Executive Vice President from 1996 to 1999. Prior to that, she held various executive positions with Lucent and AT&T.
Prior History:
Alcoa Inc. (since 2008) and a U.S. Treasury Department appointee to the Board of General Motors Company (since July 2009)
Other Directorships:
Director since 1995, Lead Director since January 1, 2009, member of the Compensation Committee since 2000 and Chairman of that Committee since May 2009, member of the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee since 2000 and Chairman of that Committee from 2002 until May 2009
Schering-Plough Service:
Among many qualifications, Ms. Russo brings significant general management expertise as a result of successfully running large complex global enterprises. Her experience includes matters relating to strategy, innovation, technology, marketing, manufacturing, customer relationship management as well as transformational change. In addition, her experience and perspectives are influenced by her years in direct management as well as the years she has served on the boards of large, global companies.
Expertise and Qualifications:
Table of Contents
Age 56, Director of the Abramson Cancer Center and Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine.
CRAIG B. THOMPSON, M.D.,
Dr. Thompson was a Professor of Medicine, Investigator in the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Director of the Gwen Knapp Center for Lupus and Immunology Research at the University of Chicago from 1993 to 1999. Dr. Thompson was a Professor, Department of Medicine, at the University of Michigan from 1987 to 1993. Prior to that, he was a Medical Officer in the US Navy from 1979 to 1987.
Prior History:
Chairman of the Medical Advisory Board at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, a Director of the Keystone Symposia, and a member of the advisory board of M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Dr. Thompson is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the National Academy of Science and of the Institute of Medicine.
Other:
: Director and Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee since 2008.
Schering-Plough Service
Among many qualifications, Dr. Thompson brings deep expertise in medical research, scientific innovation, and the development and implementation of processes for quality assurance and ethical evaluation, as well as significant experience leading complex organizations.
Expertise and Qualifications:
 
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated September 3, 2009
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 3, 2009
Table of Contents
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J. and KENILWORTH, N.J., September 3, 2009  As part of the pending merger agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. (NYSE: MRK) and Schering-Plough Corporation (NYSE: SGP), the companies today announced that the following three representatives from the current Schering-Plough board of directors are expected to remain on the Board of the newly combined company upon completion of the merger: C. Robert Kidder, Patricia F. Russo, and Craig B. Thompson, M.D.
     "Bob and Pat will offer a range of significant global business experience, while Craig will bring valuable scientific and research expertise to the combined company's Board of Directors," said Richard T. Clark, chairman, president, and chief executive officer, who will continue to serve in that role for the new Merck. "These contributions, along with the excellent insights and perspectives of the current Merck Board will serve us well as we position the new Merck for sustainable growth and success as a global healthcare leader."
     C. Robert Kidder, 64, has served as chairman and chief executive officer of 3Stone Advisors LLC, a private investment firm, since August 2006. Previously, he was a principal of investment firm Stonehenge Partners, Inc. from April 2004 to July 2006. He is chairman of Chrysler Group LLC and the lead director of Morgan Stanley. Kidder has been a Schering-Plough director since 2005.
     Patricia F. Russo, 57, served as chief executive officer of Alcatel-Lucent from 2006 to 2008. Prior to that, she served as chief executive officer of Lucent Technologies Inc. until its merger with Alcatel in 2006. She is a director for Alcoa Inc. and General Motors. Russo has been a Schering-Plough director since 1995 and lead director since Jan. 1, 2009.
     Craig B. Thompson, M.D., 56, has served as the director of the Abramson Cancer Center since 2006. Prior to that, he was the founding scientific director of the Abramson Institute, chair of the Department of Cancer Biology, and professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Thompson has been a Schering-Plough director since 2008.
     Visit for more information on Merck's current board.
www.merck.com/about/corporategovernance/board_members.html
     Merck and Schering-Plough continue to expect the merger to close in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
About Merck
     Merck & Co., Inc. is a global research-driven pharmaceutical company dedicated to putting patients first. Established in 1891, Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets vaccines and medicines to address unmet medical needs. The Company devotes extensive efforts to increase access to medicines through far-reaching programs that not only donate Merck medicines but help deliver them to the people who need them. Merck also publishes unbiased health information as a not-for-profit service. For more information, visit
www.merck.com.
About Schering-Plough
     Schering-Plough is an innovation-driven, science-centered global health care company. Through its own biopharmaceutical research and collaborations with partners, Schering-Plough creates therapies that help save and improve lives around the world. The company applies its research-and-development platform to human prescription, animal health and consumer health care products. Schering-Plough's vision is to "Earn Trust, Every Day" with the doctors, patients, customers and other stakeholders served by its colleagues around the world. The company is based in Kenilworth, N.J., and its Web site is .
www.schering-plough.com
Forward-Looking Statement
     This communication includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's and Schering-Plough's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
     The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the proposed merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period, due to, among other things, the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and pending legislation that could affect the pharmaceutical industry; the ability to obtain governmental and self-regulatory organization approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule; the actual terms of the financing required for the merger and/or the failure to obtain such financing; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the possibility that the merger does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; Merck's and Schering-Plough's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's and Schering-Plough's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions. Merck and Schering-Plough undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Schering-Plough's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, the joint proxy statement filed on June 25, 2009 and each company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") available at the SEC's Internet site (www.sec.gov).


