FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20100504075449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The following information, including the exhibits hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on May 4, 2010, regarding earnings for the first quarter of 2010, attached as Exhibit 99.1. Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2.
This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., May 4, 2010  Merck & Co., Inc. (NYSE: MRK) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2010. The company reported non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share (EPS) for the first quarter of $0.83, which excludes purchase accounting adjustments, merger-related expenses and restructuring costs, as well as a tax charge related to the recently enacted health care reform legislation. First-quarter GAAP EPS was $0.09.
Worldwide sales for the first quarter of 2010 were $11.4 billion. Net income
1
for the first quarter was $299 million. Foreign exchange for the quarter favorably affected global sales performance by 4 percent.
A reconciliation of EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to EPS, excluding certain items, is provided in the table that follows. The first quarter of 2009 GAAP results below reflect legacy Merck on a stand-alone basis.
 
 
 
"The first full quarter of results for the new Merck reflect our strong focus on driving revenue growth, maintaining the momentum of the business and reducing our cost structure," said Richard T. Clark, chairman and chief executive officer. "At the same time, we made excellent progress on achieving our integration goals.
"Merck colleagues around the world are committed to satisfying our customers' needs by providing them with innovative, distinctive products and services that save and improve lives," he added. "And our expanded worldwide presence and broader product portfolio now provides many more individuals with access to the valuable and diverse set of health care solutions Merck provides than they did just a few months ago."
 
 
 
Select Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
First-Quarter Financial Results
The following supplemental combined first-quarter 2009 non-GAAP sales are adjusted to reflect a full quarter of legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough combined results. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's products and overall business performance and should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales recorded in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The company's financial performance for the first quarter of 2010 discussed below reflects both legacy Schering-Plough and legacy Merck results. The increases noted are largely due to the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough operations.
Materials and production costs were $5.2 billion for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $1.3 billion for the first quarter of 2009. The first quarter of 2010 includes $2.3 billion of additional costs related to the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories and to intangible assets recognized as a result of the merger. The first quarters of 2010 and 2009 include $57 million and $22 million, respectively, for costs associated with restructuring programs. The gross margin was 54.3 percent for the first quarter of 2010, reflecting a 21.1 percentage point unfavorable impact from the purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs noted above. In 2009, gross margin was 75.2 percent for the first quarter, reflecting a 0.4 percentage point unfavorable impact due to restructuring costs.
Marketing and administrative expenses were $3.2 billion for the first quarter of 2010. Costs for the first quarter include $80 million of merger-related costs. Marketing and administrative costs were $1.6 billion for the first quarter of 2009.
Research and development expenses were $2.0 billion for the first quarter of 2010, which included $27 million of charges for in-process research and development impairments. Expenses for 2009 were $1.2 billion for the quarter which included $88 million of costs for restructuring activities.
 
 
 
 
Restructuring costs, primarily related to employee separations, were $288 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared with $64 million for the first quarter of 2009. The increase for the first quarter of 2010 is largely associated with the merger restructuring program.
Total overall costs associated with the company's global restructuring programs included in materials and production, research and development, and restructuring costs were $351 million and $175 million for the first quarters of 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily comprised of employee separations and accelerated depreciation.
Equity income from affiliates was $138 million in the first quarter of 2010. Equity income from affiliates no longer reflects any contribution from the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership or from Merial Limited.
Other (income) expense, net was $168 million of expense in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $67 million of income in the first quarter of 2009 primarily reflecting higher interest expense and lower interest income as a result of the merger. Additionally in the first quarter of 2010, the company recorded higher exchange losses primarily due to the impact of the Venezuelan currency devaluation, as well as income on the settlement of certain disputed royalties.
The effective tax rate of 46.4 percent for the first quarter of 2010 reflects the impact of a one-time charge of $147 million, or approximately 24 percentage points, associated with a change in tax law that requires taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the company's retiree health benefit plans which was enacted in the first quarter of 2010 as part of U.S. health care reform legislation. In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. Excluding these items, the non-GAAP effective tax rate was 23 percent for the quarter.
Financial Targets
For 2010, Merck is targeting a non-GAAP EPS range of $3.27 to $3.41, excluding certain items, and a 2010 GAAP EPS range of $1.15 to $1.50. The 2010 non-GAAP guidance excludes purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring and merger-related costs, a pretax gain from AstraZeneca's asset option exercise, and the first-quarter tax charge related to the recently enacted health care reform legislation. EPS and other financial targets assume for 2010 that Merck retains full rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in the applicable markets.
 
 
A reconciliation of anticipated 2010 EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table that follows:
 
 
Merck said it expects full-year 2010 revenue to be between $45.4 billion and $46.4 billion, including the impact of the recently passed health care reform legislation. For the full year 2010, the increased Medicaid rebates (including Managed Medicaid) and other impacts are expected to reduce revenue by approximately $170 million, which includes a first-quarter 2010 impact of approximately $33 million.
Non-GAAP research and development expense, which excludes joint ventures, is anticipated to be approximately $8.3 billion to $8.7 billion for the full year of 2010. This guidance excludes the portion of the restructuring costs and any in-process R & D impairment charges included in research and development expense in 2010.
Merck's consolidated non-GAAP 2010 tax rate is estimated to be approximately 22 percent to 24 percent.
Merck continues to target a high single-digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate for the combined company from 2009 to 2013 when compared to Merck 2009 non-GAAP EPS. As the company has previously said, the longer-term targets are applicable regardless of the assumptions made for the REMICADE and SIMPONI business.
 
 
 
Product Performance
The sales figures discussed below for legacy Schering-Plough products are reported on a GAAP basis, which represents sales for the first quarter of 2010 only.
Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology
Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR (montelukast sodium), a once-a-day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, were $1.2 billion for the first quarter of 2010, representing a 10 percent increase compared with the first quarter of 2009.
Sales of REMICADE (infliximab) were $674 million for the first quarter of 2010. REMICADE is a treatment for inflammatory diseases which is marketed in countries outside the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets). In addition, SIMPONI (golimumab), a once-monthly, subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases, has been launched in Canada, Germany, Denmark, Hungary and Norway; launches in other international markets are planned.
Global sales of NASONEX (mometasone furoate monohydrate), nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $320 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Global sales of CLARINEX (desloratadine), a nonsedating antihistamine, were $174 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Cardiovascular
Global sales of ZETIA (ezetimibe) and VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin) were $534 million and $477 million, respectively, for the first quarter of 2010.
Diabetes and Obesity
JANUVIA (sitagliptin), Merck's DPP-4 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, recorded worldwide sales of $511 million during the first quarter of 2010, representing a 24 percent increase compared with same quarter in 2009. JANUMET (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride), a single tablet that targets all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, achieved worldwide sales of $201 million during the quarter, an increase of 56 percent compared with the first quarter 2009. The JANUVIA/JANUMET combined franchise had sales of $712 million during the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 32 percent compared to the same quarter in 2009.
 
 
Infectious Disease
ISENTRESS (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, reported worldwide sales of $232 million for the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 57 percent compared with the first quarter of 2009.
Worldwide sales of PEGINTRON (peginterferon alfa-2b) for chronic hepatitis C were $186 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Mature Brands
Merck's mature brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the company's offering in other markets around the world.
Global sales of Merck's antihypertensive medicines, COZAAR (losartan potassium) and HYZAAR
7
(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), were $782 million for the first quarter of 2010, representing a 7 percent decrease compared with the first quarter of 2009. The company anticipates a significant decline in future COZAAR/HYZAAR sales since these medicines lost marketing exclusivity in the United States in April and in major European markets during the first quarter.
Neuroscience and Ophthalmology
Global sales of MAXALT (rizatriptan benzoate), Merck's tablet for the treatment of acute migraine, were $135 million for the first quarter of 2010, a 1 percent increase from the same quarter last year.
Oncology
Sales of TEMODAR (temozolomide), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $274 million the first quarter of 2010. In March, Merck reached an agreement with a generic manufacturer regarding a U.S. generic version of TEMODAR pending the resolution of Merck's appeal to the Federal Circuit concerning the patent. Under the agreement, a generic product will not be marketed until the Federal Circuit either upholds the lower court's decision or August 2013, subject to certain conditions.
 
 
 
Vaccines
8
Total sales as recorded by Merck of its cervical cancer vaccine, GARDASIL (human papillomavirus (HPV) quadrivalent (types 6, 11, 16, 18) vaccine, recombinant), were $233 million for the first quarter of 2010, an 11 percent decline from the same quarter in 2009.
ZOSTAVAX (zoster vaccine live), the company's vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded sales of $95 million in the United States for the first quarter of 2010 compared with $75 million for the first quarter of 2009. Customers will experience backorders, or periods where they are unable to place orders, for ZOSTAVAX throughout 2010 and possibly into 2011. Due to supply constraints, no international launches or immunization programs outside of the United States are currently planned for this year or 2011.
Worldwide sales of Merck's other viral vaccines, which include VARIVAX (varicella virus vaccine live), M-M-R II (measles, mumps and rubella virus vaccine live) and PROQUAD (measles, mumps, rubella and varicella virus vaccine live), as recorded by Merck, were $319 million for the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 27 percent compared with the same period a year earlier.
U.S. vaccine sales for the first quarter of 2010 benefited from inventory build-up during the quarter.
Women's Health and Endocrine
Global sales of NUVARING (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a contraceptive product, were $135 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Sales of FOLLISTIM/PUREGON (follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment, were $134 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Product Performance  Animal Health
Animal Health sales totaled $709 million for the first quarter of 2010, reflecting continued strong performance among companion animal and poultry products. Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species.
 
 
 
Product Performance  Consumer Care
Consumer Care sales were $379 million for the first quarter of 2010, which reflect strong demand for foot care products and the expansion of DR. SCHOLL'S Custom Fit Orthotics in the United States. ZEGERID OTC (omeprazole 20 mg/sodium bicarbonate 1100 mg capsules), a product for treating frequent heartburn, was launched in the United States late in the first quarter.
Select Company Data
As of March 31, Merck had approximately 95,000 employees worldwide.
Explanatory Note
Supplemental combined non-GAAP sales are provided in the attached schedules at the end of this news release to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined supplemental combined non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in the applicable table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's products and overall business performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales recorded in accordance with GAAP. Supplemental combined non-GAAP sales are available in Table 3 as part of this news release, and additional information is included in the 8-K filing today.
Earnings Conference Call
Investors are invited to a live audio webcast of Merck's first-quarter earnings conference call today at 8:00 a.m. EDT by visiting Merck's Web site, . Institutional investors and analysts can participate in the call by dialing (706) 758-9927 or (877) 381-5782. Journalists are invited to listen in on the call by dialing (706) 758-9928 or (800) 399-7917. A replay of the webcast will be available starting at 11 a.m. EDT today through 5 p.m. EDT on May 13. To listen to the replay, dial (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 and enter ID No. 67781269.
www.merck.com/investors/events-and-presentations/home.html
About Merck
Today's Merck is working to help the world be well. Through our medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our
 
 
commitment to increasing access to health care through far-reaching programs that donate and deliver our products to the people who need them. Merck. Be Well. For more information, visit .
www.merck.com
Forward-Looking Statement
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site ().
www.sec.gov
 
 
* 100%
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales for the prior year which were adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The Company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales which are adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The Company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales which are adjusted to reflect full quarters and a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The Company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
EQUITY INCOME FROM AFFILIATES (millions of dollars)
 
 
SANOFI PASTEUR MSD JOINT VENTURE SALES DETAIL (millions of dollars)
All sales reported here are end-market JV sales, presented on a "NET" basis.
 
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET (millions of dollars)
 


