FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20110429073240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The following information, including the exhibits hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on April 29, 2011, regarding earnings for the first quarter of 2011, attached as Exhibit 99.1. Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2.
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
The following information, including the exhibit hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 8.01.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on April 27, 2011, regarding Registrant's announcement of the approval by its Board of Directors of a new $5 billion treasury stock purchase program. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.3.
This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., April 29, 2011  Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
Non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share (EPS) for the first quarter of $0.92 excludes purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs, merger-related expenses, a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson, and certain other items.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP net income and EPS is provided in the tables that follow.
 
 
"Merck's first quarter performance underscores that we are successfully delivering on our intent to grow both the top line and the bottom line," said Kenneth C. Frazier, president and chief executive officer. "Our strong results were largely driven by double-digit growth of key products combined with deliberate cost control measures across all areas of the company as we continue to create a more effective and efficient operating model.
"It is clear that Merck's business momentum is building, and we continue to demonstrate the ongoing value of the merger. We're making progress in our robust late-stage pipeline, and leveraging the benefits of our expanded pharmaceutical and vaccine, animal health and consumer portfolio."
 
 
Select Revenue Highlights
Worldwide sales were $11.6 billion for the first quarter of 2011, an increase of 1 percent compared with the first quarter of 2010. The revenue increase largely reflects strong sales of JANUVIA, JANUMET, SINGULAIR, REMICADE, NASONEX and ISENTRESS, partially offset by lower sales of COZAAR
7
and HYZAAR
7
. In the first quarter of 2011, 18 percent of pharmaceutical sales were from emerging markets.
The table below reflects sales of the company's top Pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of Animal Health and Consumer Care products.
 
The combined diabetes franchise for JANUVIA (sitagliptin)/JANUMET (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride) continued its strong performance across all geographic regions during the first quarter of 2011, reaching quarterly combined sales of more than $1 billion for the first time  a 47 percent increase compared to the same period last year.
Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR (montelukast sodium), a once-a-day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 14 percent from the first quarter of 2010 to $1.3 billion, driven by gains in the United States, emerging markets and Japan.
 
 
Global sales grew in the quarter for REMICADE (infliximab), a treatment for inflammatory diseases, led by increases in gastrointestinal indications for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease as well as emerging market gains.
ISENTRESS (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, continued strong growth in the quarter driven by demand in the United States and Europe.
As expected, global sales of Merck's antihypertensive medicines COZAAR (losartan potassium) and HYZAAR (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide) continue to decline following loss of marketing exclusivity for these products in the United States and in major European markets. Sales of TEMODAR (temozolomide), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, declined due to generic competition in Europe.
Sales of ZOSTAVAX (zoster vaccine live) declined due to continued intermittent supply issues.
Product Performance  Animal Health
The company drove solid first-quarter performance in the Animal Health business across all regions, with a 7 percent sales increase over the same period last year. The growth was led by increased sales of cattle, swine and aquaculture products. The division's products include pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. In addition, in March of 2011, Merck and sanofi-aventis announced the termination of their agreement to form a new animal health joint venture.
Product Performance  Consumer Care
Merck Consumer Care delivered a first-quarter sales increase of 6 percent compared to the first quarter of 2010, with strong performance across several key brands including CLARITIN and COPPERTONE. Consumer Care includes footcare and suncare consumer products, and a variety of over-the-counter medicines.
First Quarter Expense and Other Information
The costs detailed below on a GAAP basis during the first quarter of 2011 totaled $9.4 billion and include $1.8 billion of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs and merger-related costs.
 
The gross margin was 64.9 percent for the first quarter of 2011 and 54.3 percent for the first quarter of 2010, reflecting 11.9 and 21.1 percentage point unfavorable impacts, respectively, from the purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring and merger-related costs noted above.
Equity income from affiliates was $138 million in the first quarter. Equity income from affiliates primarily includes the AstraZeneca LP, Johnson & Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company and Sanofi Pasteur MSD partnerships.
Other (income) expense, net was $622 million of expense in the first quarter of 2011 which includes a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson. Other (income) expense, net for the first quarter of 2010 was $167 million of expense.
The GAAP effective tax rate was 38.1 percent for the first quarter of 2011. The non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs, merger-related expenses, a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding, and certain other items, was 25.5 percent for the quarter.
Key Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Targets
The company updated its 2011 non-GAAP EPS target range to $3.66 to $3.76 from the previous target range of $3.64 to $3.76. The target range excludes purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs, merger-related expenses, the $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson, and certain other items. The 2011 GAAP EPS target range is $2.04 to $2.39.
In addition, the company lowered its non-GAAP R&D expense target to a range of $8.0 billion to $8.4 billion for the full year of 2011. This target excludes restructuring costs and in-process R&D impairment charges.
Merck continues to expect full year 2011 revenue to grow in the low- to mid-single digit percent range from a base of $46.0 billion in 2010.
Merck continues to estimate that its consolidated non-GAAP 2011 tax rate will be approximately 20 percent to 22 percent.
A reconciliation of anticipated 2011 EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table below.
 
 
Total Employees
As of March 31, 2011, Merck had approximately 93,000 employees worldwide.
Earnings Conference Call
Investors are invited to a live audio webcast of Merck's first quarter earnings conference call today at 8:00 a.m. EDT by visiting Merck's Web site, . Institutional investors and analysts can participate in the call by dialing (706) 758-9927 or (877) 381-5782. Journalists are
www.merck.com/investors/events-and-presentations/home.html
 
 
invited to monitor the call by dialing (706) 758-9928 or (800) 399-7917. A replay of the call will be available starting at 11 a.m. EDT today for approximately one week. To listen to the replay, dial (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 and enter ID No. 51049889.
About Merck
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships. For more information, visit .
www.merck.com
Forward-Looking Statement
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site ().
www.sec.gov
 
 
* 100%
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Sum of quarterly amounts may not equal year-to-date amounts due to rounding.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Sum of quarterly amounts may not equal year-to-date amounts due to rounding.
* 100%
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EQUITY INCOME FROM AFFILIATES (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 
SANOFI PASTEUR MSD JOINT VENTURE SALES DETAIL (millions of dollars)
All sales reported here are end-market JV sales, presented on a "NET" basis.
 
 
 
 
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., Wednesday, April 27, 2011  Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, today announced that its Board of Directors has approved additional purchases of up to $5 billion of Merck's common stock for its treasury. The treasury stock purchase has no time limit and will be made over time on the open market, in block transactions or in privately negotiated transactions.
"Merck has a history of leadership in returning cash to shareholders," said Kenneth C. Frazier, Merck's president and chief executive officer. "Together with our strong dividend, today's action reflects our confidence in Merck's strategy and demonstrates our commitment to delivering shareholder value.
"The company's total current share repurchase program is now $6.4 billion, with today's announcement and the $1.4 billion share repurchase authorization remaining under the program announced on November 24, 2009.
About Merck
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships. For more information, visit .
www.merck.com
Forward-Looking Statement
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site ().
www.sec.gov


