FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20110729072600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The following information, including the exhibits hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Company on July 29, 2011, regarding earnings for the second quarter of 2011, attached as Exhibit 99.1. Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2.
This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
.
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the "Merger Restructuring Program") in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. Additional actions under the program continued during 2010. On July 29, 2011, the Company announced the next phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, during which the Company expects to reduce its workforce measured at the time of the Merger by an additional 12% to 13% worldwide. A majority of the workforce reductions in this new phase of the Merger Restructuring Program will occur in manufacturing, including Animal Health, administrative and headquarters organizations. During this period, the Company will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. Workforce reductions previously announced in earlier phases primarily reflect the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring actions.
The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain manufacturing actions which are expected to be completed by 2015, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $5.8 billion to $6.6 billion. The Company recorded a charge of $808 million for certain portions of these costs in the second quarter of 2011. The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company now expects the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings upon completion of the program of $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion, and annual savings by the end of 2013 of approximately $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., July 29, 2011  Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2011.
 
 
Non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter of $0.95 excludes acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs and the benefit of certain tax items.
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP net income and EPS is provided in the tables that follow.
 
 
Year-to-date results can be found in the attached financial tables.
"Double-digit growth from key products, and successful new product launches in markets worldwide led to Merck's strong second quarter results," said Kenneth C. Frazier, president and chief executive officer. "We're delivering on our promise to grow both the top and bottom lines while continuing our efforts to streamline and transform Merck.
"By improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations and focusing on scientific innovation, we are well-positioned for sustained and profitable growth in the future."
 
 
Update to Merger Restructuring Program
Merck said today that it remains on track to achieve its goal of $3.5 billion in annual cost synergies by the end of 2012.
The company said it will more aggressively reduce its cost structure so Merck can continue to invest in long term profitable growth opportunities while driving a more efficient operating model. As a result, Merck announced the next phase of its Merger Restructuring Program today. As part of this next phase, the company expects to reduce its workforce, as measured at December 31, 2009, by an additional 12 to 13 percent by the end of 2015. At the same time, Merck said it will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business such as emerging markets.
"Merck is taking these difficult actions so that we can grow profitably and continue to deliver on our mission well into the future," said Frazier. "The environment we operate in is changing rapidly and dramatically, and these steps will help us more efficiently serve customers and patients around the world."
By the end of 2015, Merck now expects the overall Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual ongoing savings of $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion from the original estimate of $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion. Total cumulative pretax costs for the Program are estimated to range between $5.8 billion to $6.6 billion.
Select Revenue Highlights
Worldwide sales were $12.2 billion for the second quarter of 2011, the highest quarterly sales total for the combined company and an increase of 7 percent compared with the second quarter of 2010. Foreign exchange for the quarter favorably affected global sales performance by 4 percent. The revenue increase largely reflects strong sales of JANUVIA (sitagliptin), JANUMET (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride), REMICADE (infliximab), SINGULAIR (montelukast sodium), ISENTRESS (raltegravir), GARDASIL [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16 and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant], and ZOSTAVAX (zoster vaccine live). Pharmaceutical sales from emerging markets accounted for 18 percent of sales in the quarter.
The table below reflects sales of the company's top Pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of Animal Health and Consumer Care products.
 
The combined diabetes franchise of JANUVIA/JANUMET grew 35 percent to $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2011.
Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR, a once-a-day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 8 percent from the second quarter of 2010 to $1.4 billion, driven by Japan and the United States.
Global sales grew 26 percent in the quarter for REMICADE, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, due to growth in Europe, Canada and the emerging markets, as well as increases in gastrointestinal indications for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Under an agreement reached in the second quarter, Merck has transferred exclusive marketing rights for REMICADE and SIMPONI (golimumab) to Johnson & Johnson in territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific, effective July 1, 2011. Merck retains exclusive marketing rights to these products throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey.
ISENTRESS, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, grew 26 percent in the second quarter driven by demand in the United States and Europe.
 
 
As expected, global sales of Merck's antihypertensive medicines COZAAR (losartan potassium) and HYZAAR (losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide) continue to decline following loss of marketing exclusivity for these products in the United States and in major European markets. Sales of TEMODAR (temozolomide), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, declined due to generic competition in Europe.
Sales of ZOSTAVAX were $122 million in the quarter as a significant number of backorders were filled. The company anticipates that backorders will continue until inventory levels are sufficient to meet market demand.
Product Performance  Animal Health
Merck Animal Health sales totaled $802 million for the second quarter of 2011, a 10 percent increase over the same period last year, including an 8 percent contribution from foreign exchange. Animal Health had strong second-quarter performance across all regions. The growth was primarily led by increased sales of new products in cattle, companion animal and poultry. The division's products include pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species.
Product Performance  Consumer Care
Merck Consumer Care second-quarter global sales were comparable to the second quarter of 2010, reflecting declines in CLARITIN due to a weak allergy season that were partially offset by increases in suncare. Consumer Care includes a variety of over-the-counter medicines, as well as footcare and suncare products.
Second Quarter Expense and Other Information
The costs detailed below on a GAAP basis during the second quarter of 2011 totaled $10.4 billion and include $2.3 billion of acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs.
 
 
The gross margin was 64.7 percent for the second quarter of 2011 and 59.9 percent for the second quarter of 2010, reflecting 12.0 and 16.6 percentage point unfavorable impacts, respectively, from the acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs noted above.
Equity income from affiliates was $55 million in the second quarter. Equity income from affiliates primarily includes the AstraZeneca LP, Johnson & JohnsonMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company, and Sanofi Pasteur MSD partnerships.
Other (income) expense, net was $121 million of expense in the second quarter of 2011 compared with $281 million of income in the second quarter of 2010. The second quarter of 2010 reflects $443 million of income recognized upon AstraZeneca's asset option exercise.
The GAAP tax benefit for the second quarter of 2011 primarily reflects a net favorable impact of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of the company's 2002 to 2005 federal income tax audit, as well as a favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net $230 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting. The non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of these items as well as acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, and certain other items, was 24.3 percent for the quarter.
Key Developments
New Drug Approvals
 
 
Other Pipeline Updates
 
 
 
 
Business Development
 
 
 
Financial Targets
The company raised the lower end of its 2011 non-GAAP EPS range and is now targeting a range of $3.68 to $3.76 and a 2011 GAAP EPS target range of $1.95 to $2.17. The 2011 non-GAAP range excludes acquisition-related costs, costs related to restructuring programs, the benefit of certain tax items, a charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson, and certain other items.
Merck continues to expect full year 2011 revenue to grow in the low- to mid-single digit percent range from a base of $46.0 billion in 2010.
In addition, the company lowered the top end of its non-GAAP R&D expense target to a range of $8.0 billion to $8.3 billion for the full year of 2011.
 
The company updated its anticipated consolidated non-GAAP 2011 tax rate to a range of 23 to 24 percent.
A reconciliation of anticipated 2011 EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table below.
 
Total Employees
As of June 30, 2011, Merck had approximately 91,000 employees worldwide.
Earnings Conference Call
Investors are invited to a live audio webcast of Merck's second quarter earnings conference call today at 8:00 a.m. EDT by visiting Merck's Web site, . Institutional investors and analysts can participate in the call by dialing (706) 758-9927 or (877) 381-5782. Journalists are invited to monitor the call by dialing (706) 758-9928 or (800) 399-7917. A replay of the call will be available starting at 11 a.m. EDT today for approximately one week. To listen to the replay, dial (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 and enter ID No. 76798557.
www.merck.com/investors/events-and-presentations/home.html
About Merck
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships. For more information, visit .
www.merck.com
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statement
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site (www.sec.gov).
 
 
 
 
Sum of quarterly amounts may not equal year-to-date amounts due to rounding.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Sum of quarterly amounts may not equal year-to-date amounts due to rounding.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EQUITY INCOME FROM AFFILIATES (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 
SANOFI PASTEUR MSD JOINT VENTURE SALES DETAIL (millions of dollars)
All sales reported here are end-market JV sales, presented on a "NET" basis.
 
 
 
 
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 
 


