FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20110203073641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The following information, including the exhibits hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Registrant on February 3, 2011, regarding earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010, attached as Exhibit 99.1. Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2.
This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor-1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events: TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which has ended, and TRA-2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were designed as event-driven trials in which patients were planned to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the two studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of the steering committees for the two studies. The study chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result: in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study drug and investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. In the TRA-2P study, study drug was continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry into the study or during the course of the study. Merck subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA-2P study reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that based on all of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential benefit.
As a result of these developments, on January 28, 2011 the Company concluded that a fourth quarter 2010 pre-tax impairment charge of $1.7 billion related to the vorapaxar in process research and development intangible asset that was established as part of the Schering-Plough purchase price allocation was appropriate.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., Feb. 3, 2011  Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2010. The company reported non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share (EPS) for the fourth quarter of $0.88, which excludes purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs and merger-related expenses. The purchase accounting adjustments include a $1.7 billion pre-tax charge related to its vorapaxar clinical research program. Fourth quarter GAAP EPS was $(0.17). Merck also announced full year 2010 non-GAAP EPS of $3.42, excluding certain items, and full year GAAP EPS of $0.28.
Worldwide sales for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $12.1 billion. GAAP net loss
1
for the fourth quarter was $531 million. For the full year of 2010, worldwide sales were $46.0 billion and GAAP net income was $861 million.
A reconciliation of EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table that follows. The fourth quarter and full year 2009 results below include legacy Schering-Plough results only for the post-merger period, which began on Nov. 4, 2009.
 
 
 
"Merck today reported a high quality fourth quarter characterized by strong revenue performance, significant cost reductions and double-digit earnings growth," said Kenneth C. Frazier, president and chief executive officer. "These results clearly demonstrate the benefits of the post-merger Merck with our broader product portfolio, robust late-stage pipeline and expanded global footprint.
"Looking ahead, our focus will be on delivering sustainable, profitable top-line growth," Frazier added. "To do that, Merck will continue to innovate, make disciplined investments in our business and continue to drive out inefficiencies in our operations. Coming out of our first year as a combined company, Merck employees in markets all over the world are energized and excited about capitalizing on the many new opportunities we have to bring value to patients, customers and shareholders."
Select Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year Sales Results
The following supplemental combined 2009 non-GAAP sales are adjusted to reflect a full quarter and a full year of legacy Merck and legacy Schering-Plough combined results. See Explanatory Note on page 12 of this release for further information.
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year Expense and Other Information
The fourth quarter and full year 2010 results below reflect the performance of the combined company. The increases in 2010 non-GAAP expenses are largely due to the inclusion of legacy Schering-Plough post-merger results.
The costs detailed below on a GAAP basis during the fourth quarter of 2010 totaled $12.7 billion and include $3.9 billion of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs and merger-related costs.
On a full year 2010 GAAP basis, these costs totaled $43.6 billion and include $11.4 billion in purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs and merger-related costs. See below for 2009 comparable periods.
 
 
 
The gross margin was 63.3 percent for the fourth quarter and 60.0 percent for the full year of 2010, reflecting 10.8 and 15.2 percentage point unfavorable impacts, respectively, from the purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs noted above.
Equity income from affiliates was $171 million in the fourth quarter and $587 million for the full year of 2010. Equity income from affiliates primarily includes the AstraZeneca LP, Johnson & Johnson Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company and Sanofi Pasteur MSD partnerships, and no longer reflects any contribution from the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership or from Merial Limited (Merial).
Other (income) expense, net was $309 million of expense in the fourth quarter of 2010 which includes $120 million of exchange losses due to the Venezuelan currency devaluation. Other (income) expense, net was $1.3 billion of expense for the full year of 2010, which reflects a previously disclosed $950 million legal reserve, $200 million of exchange losses due to Venezuelan currency devaluations and $443 million of income recognized upon AstraZeneca's asset option exercise in the second quarter. Other (income) expense, net for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $7.8 billion of income primarily reflecting a $7.5 billion gain associated with obtaining a controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership. Other (income) expense, net for the full year of 2009 was $10.7 billion of income which included the $7.5 billion gain associated with obtaining a controlling interest in the Merck/Schering-Plough partnership, and a $3.2 billion gain from the sale of Merck's interest in Merial.
 
The GAAP effective tax rate of 28.7 percent for the fourth quarter of 2010 reflects the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring costs and merger-related costs. The non-GAAP effective tax rate, which excludes these items, was 14.1 percent for the quarter. Both the GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates reflect a benefit of approximately $80 million as a result of the fourth quarter 2010 enactment of the tax extenders legislation, including the R&D tax credit.
Financial Targets
The company expects full year 2011 revenue to grow in the low to mid-single digit percent range from the base of $46.0 billion in the full year 2010.
In 2011, Merck is targeting full year non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3.64 to $3.76, excluding certain items, and a 2011 GAAP EPS range of $2.05 to $2.33. The 2011 non-GAAP EPS range excludes purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring and merger-related costs.
EPS and other financial targets for 2011 assume that Merck will retain full rights to REMICADE and SIMPONI in the applicable markets. The 2011 targets also assume that the results from the animal health business will continue to be reported in net sales and operating expenses for the entire year, and these targets will be adjusted upon formation of the joint venture.
A reconciliation of anticipated 2011 EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table below.
Non-GAAP research and development expense, which excludes joint ventures, is anticipated to be approximately $8.1 billion to $8.5 billion for the full year of 2011. This target excludes restructuring costs and in-process R&D impairment charges.
Merck estimates that its consolidated non-GAAP 2011 tax rate will be approximately 20 percent to 22 percent.
Given industry pressures such as greater E.U. austerity measures and the additional impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as developments in its vorapaxar clinical program, the company has withdrawn its previous long-term target of high single-digit non-GAAP EPS compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2013.
 
Product Performance  Human Health
Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology
Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR (montelukast sodium), a once-a-day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, were $1.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2010, an increase of 7 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2009. Full year worldwide sales for SINGULAIR were $5.0 billion, a 7 percent increase compared with the prior year.
Global sales of NASONEX (mometasone furoate monohydrate) nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $303 million for the fourth quarter and $1.2 billion for the full year of 2010.
Sales of REMICADE (infliximab) were $710 million for the fourth quarter and $2.7 billion for the full year of 2010. REMICADE is a treatment for inflammatory diseases. Sales of SIMPONI (golimumab) were $42 million for the fourth quarter and $97 million for the full year of 2010. SIMPONI, a once-monthly, subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases, has been launched in 18 countries and launches in other international markets are planned. A subsidiary of Merck has exclusive marketing rights for REMICADE and SIMPONI outside the United States except in China, Japan, Indonesia, Taiwan and Hong Kong. The subsidiary's rights to market REMICADE and SIMPONI are the subject of an ongoing arbitration process with Centocor, which has been previously disclosed.
 
 
Cardiovascular
Global sales of ZETIA (ezetimibe) and VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin), the company's cholesterol-lowering medicines, were $629 million and $562 million, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2010. Annual worldwide sales of ZETIA for 2010 were $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion for VYTORIN.
Diabetes and Obesity
JANUVIA (sitagliptin), Merck's DPP-4 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, recorded worldwide sales of $675 million during the fourth quarter of 2010, representing a 21 percent increase compared with the same quarter in 2009. JANUMET (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride), a single tablet that targets all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, achieved worldwide sales of $288 million during the quarter, an increase of 42 percent compared with the fourth quarter 2009. The JANUVIA/JANUMET combined franchise had sales of $962 million during the fourth quarter of 2010, an increase of 27 percent compared to the same quarter in 2009. JANUVIA reached $2.4 billion in worldwide sales in 2010, while JANUMET achieved $954 million in global sales for the year. The combined JANUVIA/JANUMET franchise had sales of $3.3 billion for the full year of 2010, an increase of 29 percent.
Infectious Disease
ISENTRESS (raltegravir), an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, reported worldwide sales of $313 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, an increase of 34 percent compared with the fourth quarter of 2009. Global sales of ISENTRESS for the full year of 2010 were $1.1 billion, a 45 percent increase compared with the prior year.
Worldwide sales of PEGINTRON (peginterferon alfa-2b) for chronic hepatitis C were $198 million for the fourth quarter and $737 million for the full year of 2010.
Diversified Brands
Merck's diversified brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the company's offering in other markets around the world.
 
Global sales of Merck's antihypertensive medicines, COZAAR (losartan potassium) and HYZAAR
9
(losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide), were $415 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, representing a 57 percent decrease compared with the fourth quarter of 2009. Full year worldwide sales for COZAAR/HYZAAR were $2.1 billion, a 41 percent decrease compared to the full year of 2009. The company continues to experience a significant decline in COZAAR/HYZAAR sales since these medicines have lost marketing exclusivity in the United States and in major European markets.
Neuroscience and Ophthalmology
Global sales of MAXALT (rizatriptan benzoate), Merck's tablet for the acute treatment of migraine, were $149 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, a 5 percent decrease from the same quarter last year. MAXALT reported global sales of $550 million for the full year of 2010, a 4 percent decrease from the full year 2009.
Sales of BRIDION (sugammadex), for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants during surgery, were $40 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $103 million for the full year of 2010. BRIDION is currently launching in more than 30 countries outside of the United States.
Oncology
Sales of TEMODAR (temozolomide), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $266 million for the fourth quarter and $1.1 billion for the full year of 2010.
Global sales of EMEND (aprepitant), a treatment for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, were $110 million for the fourth quarter, an increase of 23 percent compared with the same quarter of 2009, and $378 million for full year 2010, an increase of 19 percent compared with the same period last year.
Sales of CAELYX (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride) for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposi's sarcoma, were $75 million for the fourth quarter and $284 million for the full year of 2010. As previously disclosed, marketing rights for CAELYX returned to Johnson & Johnson on Dec. 31, 2010.
Vaccines
10
Total sales as recorded by Merck of its cervical cancer vaccine, GARDASIL (human papillomavirus (HPV) quadrivalent (types 6, 11, 16, 18) vaccine, recombinant), were $221 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, a 20 percent decrease from the same quarter in 2009. The decrease is primarily a result of a government purchase for the CDC Strategic National Stockpile in the fourth quarter 2009. Worldwide sales of GARDASIL for the year were $988 million, a 12 percent decrease compared with the prior year.
 
 
Worldwide sales of Merck's other viral vaccines, which include VARIVAX (varicella virus vaccine live), M-M-R II (measles, mumps and rubella virus vaccine live) and PROQUAD (measles, mumps, rubella and varicella virus vaccine live), as recorded by Merck, were $285 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, a decrease of 14 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. The decrease is primarily a result of a 2009 government purchase of VARIVAX for the CDC Strategic National Stockpile. Sales of other viral vaccines for the year were $1.4 billion, an increase of 1 percent over full year 2009.
ZOSTAVAX (zoster vaccine live), the company's vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded sales of $107 million for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with $76 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. Sales for the full year of 2010 were $243 million compared with $277 million for 2009. Sales this quarter were driven by significant backorder fulfillment. Product backorders are expected to continue through at least the first quarter of 2011 and the company anticipates sales in future quarters will be affected by availability of supply.
Women's Health and Endocrine
Global sales of NUVARING (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol) vaginal ring, a contraceptive product, were $145 million for the fourth quarter and $559 million for the full year of 2010.
Sales of FOLLISTIM AQ (follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment, were $138 million for the fourth quarter and $528 million for the full year of 2010.
Product Performance  Animal Health
Animal Health sales totaled $815 million for the fourth quarter and $2.9 billion for the full year of 2010, reflecting continued solid performance among ruminant and swine products. Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Merck and sanofi-aventis continue the process of forming the proposed Animal Health joint venture and expect to close the transaction in the first half of 2011.
Product Performance  Consumer Care
Consumer Care sales were $251 million for the fourth quarter and $1.3 billion for the full year of 2010, which reflect continued strong performance of a number of key brands including DR. SCHOLL's and COPPERTONE. Consumer Care includes footcare and suncare consumer products, and a variety of over-the-counter medicines.
 
Total Employees
As of Dec. 31, 2010, Merck had approximately 94,000 employees worldwide.
Explanatory Note
Supplemental combined non-GAAP sales are provided on page 4 and in the attached schedules at the end of this news release to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined supplemental combined non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter and full year of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in the applicable table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's products and overall business performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales recorded in accordance with GAAP. Supplemental combined non-GAAP sales are available in Tables 3 and 3a as part of this news release, and additional information is included in the 8-K filing today.
Earnings Conference Call
Investors are invited to a live audio webcast of Merck's fourth quarter earnings conference call today at 8:00 a.m. EST by visiting Merck's Web site, . Institutional investors and analysts can participate in the call by dialing (706) 758-9927 or (877) 381-5782. Journalists are invited to listen in on the call by dialing (706) 758-9928 or (800) 399-7917. A replay of the call will be available starting at 11 a.m. EST on Feb. 3 through 11:59 p.m. EST on Feb. 11. To listen to the replay, dial (706) 645-9291 or (800) 642-1687 and enter ID No. 30176534.
www.merck.com/investors/events-and-presentations/home.html
About Merck
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships that donate and deliver our products to the people who need them. For more information, visit .
www.merck.com
 
Forward-Looking Statement
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Merck's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site ().
www.sec.gov
 
 
* 100%
 
The GAAP effective tax rates for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009 were (0.9)% and 14.8%, respectively. Excluding the impact of the non-GAAP items detailed in the accompanying tables, the effective tax rates were 15.3% and 20.0% for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009, respectively. The fourth quarter and full year of 2009 GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates were impacted by the favorable effect of tax settlements.
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales for the prior year which were adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales for the prior year which were adjusted to reflect the period of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect the full year of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales which are adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full quarter of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales which are adjusted to reflect a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
The following Table reflects Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales which are adjusted to reflect full quarters and a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough combined results as if the merger closed as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
Note: The company is providing Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales to reflect the revenues of the company's product sales on a comparable basis to periods prior to the merger. Merck has defined Supplemental Combined Non-GAAP sales as GAAP sales adjusted to reflect a full year of Merck and Schering-Plough performance as if the merger closed at the beginning of the periods indicated in this table. This supplemental information is provided to enhance investors' understanding of the company's sales performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, sales reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
EQUITY INCOME FROM AFFILIATES (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 
SANOFI PASTEUR MSD JOINT VENTURE SALES DETAIL (millions of dollars)
All sales reported here are end-market JV sales, presented on a "NET" basis.
 
 
 
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET (millions of dollars)
 
 
 
 


