FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20120209090541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Dr. Thomas E. Shenk has retired from the Merck & Co., Inc. Board of Directors effective February 8, 2012. Dr. Shenk is leaving the Board to focus on the new company he is forming to commercialize discoveries made in his Princeton University laboratory in the area of antiviral therapeutics. The news release announcing Dr. Shenk's retirement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Retirement of Director
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., Feb. 8, 2012  Merck (NYSE:MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, announced today that Thomas E. Shenk, Ph.D., has decided to retire from its board of directors, effective today. Dr. Shenk is leaving the board to focus on the new company he is forming to commercialize discoveries made in his Princeton University laboratory in the area of antiviral therapeutics.
Dr. Shenk has been Elkins Professor in the Department of Molecular Biology at Princeton University since 1984. He served as the department's chairman from 1996 to 2004. Dr. Shenk joined Merck's board in 2001.
About Merck
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships. For more information, visit and connect with us on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube.
www.merck.com


