FILE:MRK/MRK-8K-20120727070601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
          
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
          
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
          
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
The following information, including the exhibits hereto, is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Incorporated by reference is a press release issued by the Company on July 27, 2012, regarding earnings for the second quarter of 2012, attached as Exhibit 99.1.  Also incorporated by reference is certain supplemental information not included in the press release, attached as Exhibit 99.2.
 
This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                 
2012 Second-Quarter Non-GAAP EPS Increased 11 Percent Over Prior Year to $1.05, Excluding Certain Items; GAAP EPS of $0.58
 
                 
Worldwide Sales Up One Percent to $12.3 Billion, Five Percent Excluding Foreign Exchange; Pharmaceuticals, Animal Health and Consumer Care All Contributed to Growth
 
                 
Double-Digit Global Growth for JANUVIA, JANUMET, VICTRELIS, ISENTRESS, GARDASIL and ZOSTAVAX
 
                 
On Track for Six Major Filings in 2012-2013, Including Suvorexant and Odanacatib
 
                 
Reaffirmed 2012 Full-Year Non-GAAP EPS Target of $3.75 to $3.85, Excluding Certain Items; GAAP EPS Range of $2.04 to $2.30
 
WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J., July 27, 2012  Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada, today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter of $1.05
exclude
acquisition-related costs
and restructuring costs.
 
1
             
Merck is providing certain 2012 and 2011 non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance. This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP. For a description of the items, see Table 2a  including the related footnotes, attached to this release.
2
             
Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc.
 
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP net income and EPS is provided in the tables below.  Year-to-date results can be found in the attached tables.
 
 
"This quarter we delivered strong operational performance by focusing on growth and execution.  We achieved top- and bottom-line growth by advancing our core strategy and maintaining momentum across our businesses," said Kenneth C. Frazier, chairman and chief executive officer of Merck.  "The company remains focused on translating cutting-edge science into medically important products.  We're seeing significant progress in the pipeline this year, and we expect six major filings over the next 18 months, including suvorexant for insomnia and odanacatib for osteoporosis.  This focus on innovation and execution will drive long-term shareholder value."
 
Select Revenue Highlights
 
Worldwide sales were $12.3 billion for the second quarter of 2012, an increase of 1 percent, or 5 percent excluding foreign exchange, compared with the second quarter of 2011.  Sales also were unfavorably impacted by the arbitration settlement agreement with Johnson & Johnson discussed below.
 
The following table reflects sales of the company's top pharmaceutical products, as well as total sales of animal health and consumer care products.
 
3
      
Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted average shares.
4
      
Includes expenses for the amortization of intangible assets and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recognized as a result of mergers and acquisitions, as well as intangible asset impairment charges.  Also includes integration and other costs associated with mergers and acquisitions.
5
      
Includes an estimated income tax (benefit) expense on the reconciling items.  The second quarter of 2011 also includes the net favorable impact of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of a federal income tax audit, as well as the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net $230 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting.
 
Pharmaceutical Revenue Performance
 
Second-quarter pharmaceutical sales grew 2 percent to $10.6 billion, including a 3 percent negative impact due to foreign exchange.  Adjusting pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter of 2011 to exclude sales of REMICADE (infliximab) and SIMPONI (golimumab) from the territories transferred to Johnson & Johnson through the settlement agreement, pharmaceutical sales would have increased 5 percent in the second quarter of 2012.
6
  The revenue increases largely reflect strong sales growth for JANUVIA (sitagliptin), VICTRELIS (boceprevir), JANUMET (sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride), SINGULAIR (montelukast sodium), ISENTRESS (raltegravir) and GARDASIL [Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16 and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant].  These increases were partially offset by expected declines in sales of C
OZAAR
(losartan potassium)
and HYZAAR (
losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide) as well as European austerity measures.
 
Sales from emerging markets accounted for approximately 18 percent of pharmaceutical sales in the second quarter.  Growth in the emerging markets is being driven by diversified brands and core products like JANUVIA, JANUMET and ISENTRESS.  China continues to be a key driver with 27 percent growth for the second quarter, including a 4 percent benefit from foreign exchange.
 
6
Worldwide sales of the combined diabetes franchise of JANUVIA/JANUMET, medicines that help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes, grew 33 percent to $1.5 billion in the second quarter of 2012 driven by growth in all regions.
 
Worldwide sales of SINGULAIR, a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 6 percent to $1.4 billion in the second quarter of 2012.  The patent for SINGULAIR will expire in the U.S. in Aug. 2012 and in major European markets in Feb. 2013.  The company expects a significant and rapid reduction in sales thereafter in those markets.  SINGULAIR will retain marketing exclusivity in Japan until 2016.
 
Sales of ZETIA (ezetimibe) and VYTORIN (ezetimibe/simvastatin), medicines for lowering LDL cholesterol, grew 2 percent to $1.1 billion in the second quarter driven by growth of ZETIA in the United States and VYTORIN outside of the United States.
 
Combined sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI, treatments for inflammatory diseases, declined 35 percent to $594 million for the second quarter of 2012.  In Europe, Russia and Turkey, where Merck retained exclusive marketing rights, the combined sales of REMICADE and SIMPONI declined 3 percent for the second quarter of 2012, but excluding the impact of foreign exchange grew 6 percent.  In July 2011, the company transferred exclusive marketing rights for REMICADE and SIMPONI to Johnson & Johnson in Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific.
 
ISENTRESS, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, grew 18 percent to $398 million in the second quarter driven by strong growth in the emerging markets and the United States.
 
Global sales of Merck's antihypertensive medicines COZAAR and HYZAAR
were down 17 percent to $337 million in the second quarter of 2012 due to the loss of marketing exclusivity in the United States and major European markets in 2010.
 
Sales recorded by Merck for GARDASIL, a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of human papillomavirus (HPV), increased 17 percent to $324 million for the quarter driven by vaccinations of males in the United States and the launch in Japan.
 
Sales of ZOSTAVAX (zoster vaccine live), a vaccine for the prevention of herpes zoster, grew 22 percent to $148 million in the quarter. 
The company continues to increase its promotional efforts for ZOSTAVAX in the United States.
 
Sales of VICTRELIS, the company's oral hepatitis C virus NS3/4A protease inhibitor, were $126 million in the quarter.  VICTRELIS is approved in 43 countries and has launched in 23 of those markets.
Animal Health Revenue Performance
 
Animal Health sales totaled $865 million for the second quarter of 2012, an 8 percent increase over the second quarter of 2011, including a 6 percent negative impact due to foreign exchange.  Animal Health had strong performance in the United States and Asia Pacific, with growth led by increased sales of cattle and swine products.  The division's products include pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species.
 
Consumer Care Revenue Performance
 
Second-quarter global sales of Consumer Care were $552 million, an increase of 2 percent compared to the second quarter of 2011, including a 1 percent negative impact due to foreign exchange.  The sales increase was primarily due to MiraLAX, CLARITIN and COPPERTONE.
 
Other Revenue Performance
 
Other revenues  primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third-party manufacturing sales  declined 26 percent to $333 million.  The change was driven largely by lower revenue from AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) recorded by Merck, which declined 27 percent to $223 million, as well as by lower third-party manufacturing sales.
 
Second-Quarter Expense and Other Information
 
The costs detailed below totaled $9.7 billion on a GAAP basis during the second quarter of 2012 and include $1.7 billion of acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs.
 
The gross margin was 66.6 percent for the second quarter of 2012 and 64.7 percent for the second quarter of 2011, reflecting 10.6 and 12.0 percentage point unfavorable impacts, respectively, from the acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs noted above.
 
Marketing and administrative expenses, on a non-GAAP basis, were $3.2 billion in the second quarter of 2012, a decrease from $3.4 billion in the second quarter of 2011.  The decrease was primarily due to ongoing productivity measures.
 
Research and development (R&D) expenses, on a non-GAAP basis, were $2.0 billion in the second quarter of 2012, an increase from $1.9 billion in the second quarter of 2011.  The increase primarily reflects the $120 million upfront payment as part of the Endocyte Inc. transaction.
 
Equity income from affiliates was $142 million for the second quarter, which primarily reflects the performance of AZLP and Sanofi Pasteur MSD.
 
Other (income) expense, net was $103 million of expense in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $121 million of expense in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Key Developments
 
The company noted the following developments:
                 
Pivotal Phase III data were presented that showed suvorexant, an investigational treatment for insomnia, improved patients' ability to fall asleep and stay asleep, achieving significance on 15 of 16 primary endpoints. 
Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for approval by the end of 2012;
                 
Primary efficacy outcomes were met in the Phase III trial of odanacatib, Merck's investigational cathepsin-K inhibitor for osteoporosis, and Merck announced that the study is being concluded early. 
Merck expects to file regulatory applications for approval in the United States and Europe in the first half of 2013 and Japan in the third quarter of 2013;
                 
Merck continued to advance plans for four additional major regulatory filings by end of 2013 including:  BRIDION (sugammadex), a neuromuscular blocker reversal agent; V503, a nine-valent vaccine for HPV; TREDAPTIVE (extended-release niacin/laropiprant), a novel candidate for multiple lipid parameters; and vintafolide, a small molecule drug conjugate for ovarian and other cancers (European Union filing);
                 
Merck previously announced in late March 2012 that the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board of the IMPROVE-IT study planned to review data from the study again in approximately nine months.  That review has been scheduled for March 2013, at which point nine months of additional data will have been adjudicated;
                 
Five-year data were presented from the STARTMRK study, in which the regimen including ISENTRESS demonstrated better efficacy and long-term safety and tolerability versus the regimen including efavirenz; and
                 
Merck and AstraZeneca amended their option agreement related to AZLP.  As a result, AstraZeneca will not acquire Merck's stake in AZLP in 2012 and has a new option to acquire Merck's interest in June 2014.
 
Financial Targets
 
Merck continues to expect full-year 2012 non-GAAP EPS to be between $3.75 and $3.85 and the 2012 GAAP EPS range to be $2.04 to $2.30.  The 2012 non-GAAP range excludes
acquisition-related costs
and costs related to restructuring programs
.
 
Merck continues to expect full-year 2012 revenues to be at or near 2011 levels on a constant currency basis.  At current exchange rates, sales would be affected unfavorably by approximately 6 percent for the third quarter and more than 3 percent for the full year.
 
In addition, the company expects full-year 2012 non-GAAP R&D expenses to be slightly higher than the 2011 level.  The company now expects the full-year 2012 non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 25 percent.
 
A reconciliation of anticipated 2012 EPS as reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP EPS that excludes certain items is provided in the table below.
 
 
Total Employees
 
As of June 30, 2012, Merck had approximately 84,000 employees worldwide.
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
Investors are invited to a live audio webcast of Merck's second-quarter earnings conference call today at 8:00 a.m. EDT by visiting Merck's Internet site, .  Institutional investors and analysts can participate in the call by dialing (706) 758-9927 or (877) 381-5782.  Journalists are
www.merck.com/investors/events-and-presentations/home.html
invited to monitor the call by dialing (706) 758-9928 or (800) 399-7917.  A replay of the call will be available starting at 11 a.m. EDT today for approximately one week.  To listen to the replay, dial (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056 and enter ID No. 91089609.
 
About Merck
 
Today's Merck is a global healthcare leader working to help the world be well. Merck is known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Through our prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer care and animal health products, we work with customers and operate in more than 140 countries to deliver innovative health solutions. We also demonstrate our commitment to increasing access to healthcare through far-reaching policies, programs and partnerships. For more information, visit www.merck.com and connect with us on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube.
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger between Merck and Schering-Plough, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set
forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that all of the expected synergies from the
merger of Merck and Schering-Plough will not be realized, or will not be realized within the
expected time period; the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care
legislation in the United States and internationally; Merck's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Merck's patents and other protections for innovative products; and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.
 
Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additional factors that could
cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be
found in Merck's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the company's other filings with the  Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) available at the SEC's Internet site ().
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
*100% or greater
 
(1) Amounts include the impact of acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs. See accompanying tables for details.
 
(2) Represents separation and other related costs associated with restructuring activities under the company's formal restructuring programs.
 
(3) Primarily reflects equity income from the AstraZeneca LP and Sanofi Pasteur MSD partnerships.
 
(4) Other (income) expense, net in the first six months of 2011 includes a charge of $500 million related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson and a $127 million gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets.
 
(5) The company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method which requires the allocation of net income between common shareholders and participating security holders.  Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. common shareholders used to calculate earnings per common share assuming dilution was $1,792 million and $2,020 million for the second quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively, and was $3,528 million and $3,059 million for the first six months of 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
(6) The GAAP effective tax rates for the second quarter and first six months of 2012 were 32.1% and 30.8%, respectively.  Excluding the impact of the non-GAAP reconciling items detailed in the accompanying tables, the effective tax rates were 25.8% and 25.3% for the second quarter and first six months of 2012, respectively.  The GAAP effective tax rates for the second quarter and first six months of 2011 were (22.8)% and 8.1%, respectively.  Excluding the impact of the non-GAAP reconciling items detailed in the accompanying tables, the effective tax rates were 24.3% and 24.9% for the second quarter and first six months of 2011, respectively.
 
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance.  This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(1) Amounts included in materials and production costs reflect expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recognized as a result of mergers and acquisitions.  Amounts included in marketing and administrative expenses reflect merger integration costs.  Amounts included in research and development expenses represent in-process research and development ("IPR&D") impairment charges.
 
(2) Amounts primarily include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested related to actions under the company's formal restructuring programs.
 
(3) Represents the estimated tax impact on the reconciling items.
 
(4) The company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method which requires the allocation of net income between common shareholders and participating security holders.  Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. common shareholders used to calculate non-GAAP earnings per common share assuming dilution was $3,226 million for the second quarter of 2012.
 
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance.  This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(1) Amounts included in materials and production costs reflect expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recognized as a result of mergers and acquisitions.  Amounts included in marketing and administrative expenses reflect merger integration costs.  Amounts included in research and development expenses represent in-process research and development ("IPR&D") impairment charges.
 
(2) Amounts primarily include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested related to actions under the company's formal restructuring programs.
 
(3) Represents the estimated tax impact on the reconciling items.
 
(4) The company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method which requires the allocation of net income between common shareholders and participating security holders.  Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. common shareholders used to calculate non-GAAP earnings per common share assuming dilution was $6,266 million for the first six months of 2012.
 
 
 
(1)
 Only select products are shown.
(2)
 Includes Pharmaceutical products not individually shown above.  Other Vaccines sales included in Other Pharmaceutical were $60 million and $75 million for the first and second quarters of 2012, respectively.  Other Vaccines sales included in Other Pharmaceutical were $54 million, $67 million, $100 million and $62 million for the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2011, respectively.
(3)
 Other revenues are primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third party manufacturing sales.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Sum of quarterly amounts may not equal year-to-date amounts due to rounding.
 
*100% or greater
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance.  This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(1) Amounts included in materials and production costs reflect expenses of $1.2 billion for the amortization of intangible assets and the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recognized as a result of mergers and acquisitions, as well as $118 million of impairment charges on product intangibles.  Amounts included in marketing and administrative expenses reflect integration costs, as well as other costs associated with mergers and acquisitions, such as severance costs which are not part of the company's formal restructuring programs.  Amounts included in research and development expenses represent in-process research and development ("IPR&D") impairment charges.
(2) Amounts primarily include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested related to actions under the company's formal restructuring programs.
(3) Includes a net benefit of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of the company's 2002-2005 federal income tax audit, the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net $230 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting, as well as the estimated tax impact on the reconciling items.
(4) The company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method which requires the allocation of net income between common shareholders and participating security holders.  Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. common shareholders used to calculate non-GAAP earnings per common share assuming dilution was $2,942 million for the second quarter of 2011.
 
 
Merck is providing non-GAAP information that excludes certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. Management believes that providing this information enhances investors' understanding of the company's performance.  This information should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
(1) Amounts included in materials and production costs reflect expenses of $2.5 billion for the amortization of intangible assets and the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recognized as a result of mergers and acquisitions, as well as $118 million of impairment charges on product intangibles.  Amounts included in marketing and administrative expenses reflect integration costs, as well as other costs associated with mergers and acquisitions, such as severance costs which are not part of the company's formal restructuring programs.  Amounts included in research and development expenses represent in-process research and development ("IPR&D") impairment charges.
(2) Amounts primarily include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested related to actions under the company's formal restructuring programs.
(3) Included in other (income) expense, net is a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson and a $127 million gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets.
(4) Includes a net benefit of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of the company's 2002-2005 federal income tax audit, the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net $230 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting, as well as the estimated tax impact on the reconciling items.
(5) The company calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method which requires the allocation of net income between common shareholders and participating security holders.  Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. common shareholders used to calculate non-GAAP earnings per common share assuming dilution was $5,795 million for the first six months of 2011.
 
 
 
(1)
  Only select products are shown.
(2)
  Includes Pharmaceutical products not individually shown above.  Other Vaccine sales included in Other Pharmaceutical were $75 million and$67 million on a global basis for second quarter 2012 and 2011, respectively.
(3)
  Other revenues are primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third party manufacturing sales.
 
 
 
 
(1)
  Only select products are shown.
(2)
  Includes Pharmaceutical products not individually shown above.  Other Vaccine sales included in Other Pharmaceutical were $134 million and$121 million on a global basis for June YTD 2012 and 2011, respectively.
(3)
  Other revenues are primarily comprised of alliance revenue, miscellaneous corporate revenues and third party manufacturing sales.
 
 
 
(1) Europe primarily represents all European Union countries and the European Union accession markets.
 
 
EQUITY INCOME FROM AFFILIATES (millions of dollars)
 
 
(1)
 
Includes results for Sanofi Pasteur MSD.
 
 
SANOFI PASTEUR MSD JOINT VENTURE SALES DETAIL (millions of dollars)
All sales reported here are end-market JV sales, presented on a "NET" basis.
 
 
 
OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET (millions of dollars)
 
 
(1)
 Prior period amounts reflect reclassifications to conform to the current period presentation.
(2)
 Other, net in the first six months of 2011 includes a charge of $500 million related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson.
 
 


