FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20040819100436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(507) 437-5611
 
Item 7. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Exhibits being furnished pursuant to Item 12
(c)
          
 
99                Earnings release issued August 19, 2004
 
Item 12. 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 19, 2004, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended July 24, 2004.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
., August 19, 2004 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2004 third quarter ended July 24, 2004.
AUSTIN, Minn
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
EPS of $.40, versus $.25 in 2003 (current year includes an 8 cent per share gain from the sale of Vista International Packaging, Inc.)
            
Dollar sales of $1.2 billion increased 15 percent from 2003
            
Volume up 6 percent compared to last year
            
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 34 percent; volume up 1 percent; dollar sales up 14 percent
            
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit positively swung $8.4 million versus last year; volume down 2 percent (planned reductions announced last year to better manage supply); dollar sales up 15 percent
            
Grocery Products operating profit down 10 percent; volume down 3 percent; dollar sales up 1 percent
            
Specialty Foods operating profit up 38 percent; volume up 63 percent; dollar sales up 46 percent (37 percent due to Century Foods International acquisition)
            
Launch of and chili in Tetra Recart carton
            
HORMEL
STAGG
Jeff Ettinger named President and COO
            
 
 
Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL-News), the multinational marketer of consumer-branded meat and food products, today reported fiscal 2004 third quarter net earnings of $56.3 million, up 63 percent from $34.7 million a year earlier (current year includes an $11.5 million after-tax gain from the sale of Vista).  Earnings per share were $.40 versus $.25 in the fiscal 2003 third quarter (current year includes an 8 cent per share gain from the sale of Vista).  Sales totaled $1.2 billion, up from $1.0 billion in the same period last year.
 
For the nine months ended July 24, net earnings were $161.8 million (includes an $11.5 million gain from the sale of Vista), or $1.15 per share (includes an $.08 gain from the sale of Vista), compared to $115.4 million or $.83 per share last year.  Sales totaled $3.4 billion, up from $3.0 billion in the same period last year.
COMMENTARY AND OUTLOOK
 
"The third quarter was eventful for Hormel Foods," said Joel W. Johnson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer. "Jeffrey M. Ettinger was named president and COO of Hormel Foods.  Jeff will be only the ninth president in the company's 113-year history.  I am excited to have Jeff in his new role and have complete confidence in his ability to lead Hormel Foods to continued success.  He is a tested, Hormel Foods executive who knows all areas of our business very well," Johnson said.
 
"Our strategies continue to drive profitability throughout the company," Johnson said. "Earnings per share for the quarter from on-going operations improved by 28 percent over last year," Johnson continued.  "Even though we reported significant improvement over last year, higher grain prices substantially increased our cost of goods, particularly in our turkey operation.  Because of this higher cost, we were not able to deliver the level of operating profit margin we had hoped for," Johnson stated.
 
"Both Hormel Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store Foodservice business units delivered another strong quarter with dollar sales up 19 percent and 27 percent respectively.  Products contributing double-digit growth include bacon, BBQ products, pork and Jennie-O Turkey Store oven roasted and pre-sliced products," Johnson stated.
HORMEL
AUSTIN BLUES
HORMEL ALWAYS TENDER
 
"Retail products within our Refrigerated Foods segments that reported solid growth included Hams, flavored meats and fully cooked entres," said Johnson.
HORMEL CURE 81
HORMEL ALWAYS TENDER
HORMEL
 
"Jennie-O Turkey Store delivered much better returns than last year because of the growth in sales of value-added products, better commodity meat markets and improved efficiencies.  Dollar sales of value-added products are 17 percent ahead of last year," Johnson said.
 
"The Grocery Products operating profit and volume loss was a disappointment.  We continue to evaluate areas that are not meeting expectations and we are making adjustments," Johnson commented.  "We continue to feel pressure from higher pork and beef raw material costs but benefited from improved volume results reported from ethnic items and the family of products," Johnson said. "The price increase implemented on June 14 also benefited results," Johnson stated.
SPAM
 
"The launch of the new Tetra Recart carton for our chili items is going well and the national roll-out of our chili is exceeding expectations.  The innovative Tetra packaging concept was very well received by the trade," Johnson said.  "Because of the better-than-expected market acceptance, we will experience higher-than-anticipated marketing expense in the fourth quarter to support the accelerated roll-out," Johnson continued.
STAGG
 
"Diamond Crystal Brands delivered another strong quarter, with operating profit up 81 percent driven by sales in the sugar substitute category," Johnson said.
 
"Our International business reported solid export results, with volume up 23 percent," Johnson said.  "Exceptional international demand for pork products, the family of products and chili drove the volume increase," Johnson added.
SPAM
STAGG
"The sale of our Vista packaging business allows us to re-deploy capital to more strategic investments that will bring faster growth and more profitability to Hormel Foods.  We continue to look for acquisitions that fit our portfolio and match our strategy," Johnson said.
 
"After assessing industry factors and our own business plans and prospects, our earnings guidance for the fourth quarter is in a range of $.40 to $.46 per share.  For the full year of fiscal 2004, our earnings guidance is in a range of $1.46 to $1.52, which does not include one-time items," Johnson concluded.
 
 
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
Grocery Products (14 % of Net Sales, 27% of Segment Operating Profit)
 
Dollar sales totaled $165 million, up 1 percent.
                 
Volume was down by 3 percent.  Weaker sales from productsand canned products represented most of the decrease.  Growth was reported by olive oil, Mexican products, Indian products and microwave bowls.
                 
DINTY MOORE CLASSIC BAKES
DINTY MOORE
CARAPELLI
HERDEZ
PATAK'S
DINTY MOORE
Operating profit was down 10 percent primarily from higher beef and pork raw material costs and the lower volume of canned products.  Growth from ethnic products, the family of products and the price increase implemented in the third quarter contributed to profitability.
                 
DINTY MOORE
SPAM
and chili roll-out of new Tetra Recart carton.  The new packaging offers a variety of advantages including portability, easy opening and pouring and convenient space-saving stackability in kitchen cupboards.  Trade acceptance has been very good.  The national roll-out of chili (previously in markets west of the Mississippi River) has exceeded expectations.  Additional marketing spending will need to be allocated in the fourth quarter to support the new distribution.
                 
HORMEL
STAGG
STAGG
 
Refrigerated Foods (49 % of Net Sales, 45 % of Segment Operating Profit)
 
Dollar sales totaled $567 million, up 14 percent.
                 
Volume increased 1 percent
                 
Operating profit improved 34 percent to $36 million, reflecting improved market conditions and higher returns on value-added, branded products.
                 
Leading the growth within this segment included double-digit volume performers marinated flavored meats, pre-cooked bacon, and dry sausage products. Pre-sliced meats delivered outstanding growth with volume up over 100 percent. This pre-sliced line of products is perfect for today's consumer looking for the convenience of pre-sliced product in an easy to open and close package.  These products are also offered through our program.
                 
HORMEL ALWAYS TENDER
DI LUSSO DELI
Foodservice reported double-digit volume growth in key categories including premium bacon, boneless pork, BBQ, meats and products.
                 
HORMEL
ALWAYS TENDER
AUSTIN BLUES
BREAD READY
CAF H
Jennie-O Turkey Store (22 % of Net Sales, 11 % of Segment Operating Profit)
 
Dollar sales increased 15 percent to $258 million.
                 
Volume was down 2 percent.  The previously announced strategy of scaling back production caused the reduction.  Industry forecasts continue to show lower year-over-year supplies for the balance of 2004.
                 
Operating profit totaled $8.3 million compared to a $100 thousand loss last year.  Profitability gains have resulted from a combination of value-added sales growth, excellent commodity meat markets and continued efficiencies in live production and in our manufacturing plants.
                 
Value-added sales have grown 17 percent.  Strong volume growth continued for value-added products such as bacon, dinner sausage, marinated tenderloins and stuffed breast items.
                 
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
Higher grain costs pressured margins because the flocks brought to market during the quarter had a large percent of their growing time under high feed costs.  We will continue to feel this pressure in the fourth quarter.
                 
Foodservice dollar sales were up 27 percent.
                 
Export markets continue to perform very well.  Mexico and Russia were the strongest markets.  China and some other Asian nations are the only markets which continue to ban imports as a result of the avian flu outbreaks earlier this year.
                 
 
Specialty Foods (10 % of Net Sales, 9 % of Segment Operating Profit)
 
Dollar sales increased 46 percent to $115 million (37 percent due to Century Foods International acquisition).
                 
Volume was up 63 percent.
                 
Operating profit improved 38 percent.
                 
Diamond Crystal Brands sugar substitute category reported strong volume growth, up 180 percent over last year.
                 
Record dairy markets negatively affected margins in Century Foods International.  We should see some relief in the dairy markets in the fourth quarter.
                 
 
All Other (5 % of Net Sales, 8 % of Segment Operating Profit)
 
Dollar sales increased 11 percent to $50 million.
                 
Volume was 32 percent higher than a year earlier, primarily due to strong export sales of fresh pork and the family of products.
                 
SPAM
Operating profit was down 8 percent.  The sale of Vista occurred in period 9 so this year only includes two periods of operating profit for that subsidiary.
                 
 
General Corporate Expense
Expenses decreased $23.7 million primarily from the $18.1 million pre-tax gain recorded for the sale of Vista, $2.4 million reduction to post-retirement benefits (Medicare Act of 2003)  and $1.3 million reduction in bad debt expense.
                 
Net Interest and Investment Income
Net expenses were higher than last year by $4.9 million for three reasons.  First, the return on the Rabbi Trust decreased by $3.8 million this year compared to last.  Second, Campofrio paid a $2.3 million dividend in 2003 that was not received in 2004 because Campofrio was sold in the second quarter of 2004. And the third item, which reduced expenses, was a reduction in interest expense in 2004 of $1.6 million.
                 
 
 
DIVIDENDS
 
Effective August 15, 2004, the company paid its 304 consecutive quarterly dividend.  The annual rate is $.45 per share.
th
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
A conference call will be Webcast at 10:00 a.m. CT on Thursday, August 19, 2004.  Access is available at www.hormel.com.  If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to an audio replay, call 800-642-1687 in the United States and 706-645-9291 internationally and enter conference call ID 9340946.  The Webcast replay will be available at 12:00 (noon) CT, August 19, and archived for one year.  Listening to the Webcast requires speakers and Microsoft's Windows Media Player.  If you do not have Media Player, you may download it for free at http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/download/default.asp.  The audio replay will be available beginning at 12:00 (noon) CT on Thursday, August 19, 2004, through 11:59 p.m. CT on September 3, 2004.
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational marketer of consumer-branded, value-added food, meat and poultry products delivered through retail and foodservice channels.  The company creates shareholder value by building emerging businesses, strengthening existing brands, launching new brands, providing outstanding customer service, maintaining careful cash and debt management and transparent accounting policies and by leveraging its strong financial position to accelerate growth worldwide.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ.  Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Statements and Information that appears on Exhibit 99.1 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 25, 2003, which can be accessed at http://www.hormel.com
Segment Data
 
Fiscal 2004 Third Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 


