FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20050131163713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 7  REGULATION FD
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
  A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On January 31, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Arriba Foods Inc.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)   Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 7.01
 
Press release issued January 31, 2005
   99
                                      
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
Fred Halvin
Director - Investor Relations
507.437.5007
 
Hormel Foods Acquires Arriba Foods
 
AUSTIN, MINN.  (Jan. 31, 2005)  Today, Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) announced the acquisition of Arriba Foods Inc., one of the premier manufacturers and marketers of Mexican food products, for $47 million in cash.  The company was purchased from Chicago, Ill.- based Arbor Private Investment Company, L.P.
 
The operating units of Arriba Foods, Mexican Accent Inc. and Rio Real Inc., based in New Berlin, Wis., manufacture and distribute a wide variety of premium Mexican flour tortillas, corn tortillas, salsas, seasonings and tortilla chips for retail markets and the foodservice industry.  These products are marketed under the s, and brands.
Manny'
Gringo Pete's
Mexican Accent
 
tortillas are the number one selling brand of flat-packaged shelf stable tortillas in the eastern half of the United States.  flour tortillas and corn tortillas, available in the refrigerated case, and flour tortillas and corn tortillas sold to foodservice operators also enjoy strong market share.
Manny's
Gringo Pete's
Mexican Accent
 
In 2004, the company introduced an innovative line of fresh dinner kits comprised of soft and hard taco shells, soft tortillas, sauce and seasoning mix.
Manny's
 
Arriba Foods has manufacturing and administrative operations in New Berlin.  The company has approximately 150 employees.
 
"Arriba Foods offers an impressive array of high quality products that will be immediately accretive to our Grocery Products business segment," said Joel W. Johnson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer with Hormel Foods.  "These products will further strengthen our growing presence in the ethnic products category."
 
Hormel Foods currently markets various Mexican salsas, sauces and other products under the , , and brands.
Chi-Chi's
Herdez
Doa Mara
Bufalo
About Arriba Foods, Inc.
 
Mexican Accent, a wholly owned subsidiary of Arriba Foods, was founded in 1988 by Ken Levitt and Dennis Johnson.  Arbor Private Investment Company, L.P. acquired the company in 2002.  Harris Nesbitt Corp. acted as the company's financial advisor.
 
About Hormel Foods Corporation
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry.  The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace.  The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, and foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value.  For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ.  Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Statements and Information that appears on Exhibit 99.1 of the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Oct. 30, 2004, which can be accessed at http://www.hormel.com.


