FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20050321165637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 7  REGULATION FD
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
  A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 21, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Lloyd's Barbeque Company.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 7.01
(c)
          
 
99         Press release issued March 21, 2005
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Fred Halvin
Director, Investor Relations
507-437-5007
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
AUSTIN, MINN. (March 21, 2005) - Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today announced it has signed a purchase agreement to acquire Lloyd's Barbeque Company from General Mills who acquired the company in 1999.  The anticipated closing date will be within the next few weeks.  Terms were not disclosed.
 
"Lloyd's Barbeque Company is an excellent addition to the Hormel Foods family of consumer brands and fits our growing array of high quality product offerings sought by today's busy families," said Joel W. Johnson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Hormel Foods.
 
Lloyd's Barbeque Company, with manufacturing operations in St. Paul, Minn., offers a full range of barbecue products including original shredded pork, chicken and beef tubs, honey hickory shredded pork and chicken and barbecue pork spareribs, beef backribs and pork babyback ribs, all under the Lloyd's brand name.
 
Johnson noted that the acquisition would be immediately accretive to Hormel Foods.  He anticipated margin and growth opportunities for the brand by capitalizing on Hormel Foods distribution and meat supply systems.
 
"Lloyd's brands have earned strong market share in the retail refrigerated entre category  a business that Hormel Foods knows well," Johnson added. "We believe Lloyd's will continue to flourish as part of our roster of refrigerated products.
 
 
About Hormel Foods Corporation
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry.  The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace.  For each of the past five years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by magazine.
Forbes
 
The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, and foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value.  For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
 
About Lloyd's Barbeque Company
 
Lloyd's Barbeque Company pioneered the heat-and-eat barbecue meat category 25 years ago. Since then, the company has perfected its quality line of authentic pork and beef barbecue ribs and shredded barbecue chicken, pork and beef available nationwide in the grocer's meat case. Lloyd's is located in St. Paul, Minn.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions. Actual events may differ.  Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Statements and Information that appears on Exhibit 99.1 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 2004, which can be accessed at http://www.hormel.com.
 


