FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20050930115619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 26, 2005, Hormel Foods Corporation's (the "Company's") Board of Directors elected Jeffrey M. Ettinger, age 46, to succeed Joel W. Johnson as chief executive officer of the corporation, effective January 1, 2006.  Mr. Johnson is retiring as chief executive officer on January 1, 2006, and will continue to serve as chairman of the board after that date.
 
Mr. Ettinger began his career with the Company in 1989 and held various positions until being named vice president in 1999 and president of Jennie-O Foods in 2000.  In 2001, he was named president and chief operating officer of Jennie-O Turkey Store following the acquisition of The Turkey Store Company and was promoted to group vice president of Hormel later that year.  In 2003, Mr. Ettinger was named president and chief executive officer of Jennie-O Turkey Store where he served until being named president and chief operating officer of Hormel in 2004.
 
Mr. Ettinger has no family relationships with any member of the Board or any other executive officer of the Company, and is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Mr. Ettinger and the Company have not entered into any employment agreement in connection with his election as chief executive officer.
 
A press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 5.03
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
Pursuant to resolutions approved by the Board of Directors of the Company on September 26, 2005, the Board of Directors approved amendments to Sections 2, 9, 13, 15, 28.C., 31.A., 32.A., 32.B., 34, 38 and 42 of the Bylaws of Hormel Foods Corporation.
 
Section 2 is amended to include a change of address for the Company's registered agent.
 
Section 9 is amended concerning the availability of the list of stockholders for review prior to each stockholders' meeting.
 
Section 15 is amended to remove the month of October from the schedule of regularly occurring meetings of the Company's Board of Directors.
 
Section 28.C. is amended to allow the President of the Company to be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation if so designated by the Board of Directors.
Sections 13, 31.A., 32.A., 32.B., 34, 38 and 42 are amended to substitute "his or her" in place of "his" and "he or she" in place of "he" in each instance where such words appear.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02 and Item 5.03
(c)
   
 
Amendment of Sections 2, 9, 13, 15, 28.C., 31.A., 32.A., 32.B., 34, 38 and 42 of the Bylaws of Hormel Foods Corporation
3(ii)
            
 
Press release, dated September 27, 2005, announcing the election of Jeffrey M. Ettinger as chief executive officer
99
               
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3(ii)
 
2.             The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company, whose address is 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.
 
In addition to its registered office in the State of Delaware, the corporation may establish and maintain an office or offices at Austin, Minnesota, and at such other places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the corporation may require.
 
9.             A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at each meeting of stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the residence of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be prepared by the Secretary and shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting, for at least ten days prior to the meeting during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation, or electronic network, and at the place and during the whole time of said meeting.
 
13.           The property and business of the corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors.  The number of Directors shall be established from time to time by resolution of the stockholders or the Board of Directors.  The Directors of the corporation shall be elected annually at the annual meeting of stockholders and each Director shall be elected to serve until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify.
 
15.           Regular meetings of the Board, after the organizational meeting, shall be held without notice at the Corporate Office of the corporation at Austin, Minnesota, on the fourth Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November at 1:00 p.m. or at such other date, time or place, within or without the State of Minnesota, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
 
28.C.       The Chairman of the Board, or the President if so designated by the Board of Directors, shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation and shall have general and active management of the business of the corporation.
 
31.A.       The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board and all meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose; and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required.  He or she shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, under whose supervision he or she shall be.  He or she shall keep in safe custody the seal of the corporation, and when authorized by the Board, affix it to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed it shall be attested by his or her signature or by the signature of the Treasurer.
 
32.A.       He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board, taking the proper vouchers for such disbursement, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation and Directors, at the regular meetings of the Board, or whenever they may require it, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation.
 
32.B.       He or she shall give the corporation a bond if required by the Board of Directors in a sum, and with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board, for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office, and for the restoration of the corporation in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement
 
or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the corporation.
 
34 (Para. 2)             Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee, or (ii) a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, either of which countersignatures may be a facsimile, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
38.           Any person claiming a certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that fact and advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors may require, and the Board of Directors may, in their discretion, before issuing a new certificate, require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, to give the corporation a bond, in such sum as they may direct, not exceeding double the value of the stock, to indemnify the corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of alleged loss of any such certificate; a new certificate of the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to be lost or destroyed may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Directors, it is proper so to do.
 
42.           The corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable laws of the State of Delaware in effect from time to time shall indemnify each officer against the expenses of any action to which such officer is a party or is threatened to be made a party in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he or she is or was an officer of the corporation; and the corporation may purchase and maintain insurance for the purpose of indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by said laws.  Notwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws and except as otherwise specifically provided for herein, the corporation shall be required to indemnify an officer in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof including any counterclaim in any proceeding) commenced by such officer only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof including any counterclaim in any proceeding) by the officer was authorized by the Board of Directors.

Exhibit 99
 
 
AUSTIN, MINN. (Sept. 27, 2005)  The board of directors of Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today announced that it unanimously elected Jeffrey M. Ettinger to be the company's ninth chief executive officer. Ettinger, current president and chief operating officer, succeeds Joel W. Johnson who will retire as chief executive officer on Jan. 1, 2006. Johnson will continue to serve as Hormel Foods chairman of the board.
 
"Hormel Foods has been privileged to have Joel Johnson lead the company as chief executive officer for the past 12 years. Johnson's vision and steady hand helped grow the company and provide its shareholders with strong and consistent returns.  He has been very effective in his role as chief executive officer.  Johnson orchestrated numerous strategic acquisitions to expand the presence of Hormel Foods, most notably The Turkey Store. He refined the company's marketing strategy to significantly advance the sale of value-added products, and established Hormel Foods as a significant player in the ethnic foods marketplace," said Dr. Robert R. Waller, board member.
 
After spending 24 years at General Foods Corporation, Johnson joined Hormel Foods Corporation as executive vice president of sales and marketing in 1991.  He was elevated to the position of president and elected to the board of directors in 1992.  In October 1993, Johnson was elected chief executive officer and in December of 1995 he became chairman of the board.
 
"It has been an honor to lead this great company and I am proud of our accomplishments," said Johnson. "We built a balanced portfolio of category leaders in both the refrigerated and grocery aisles and have established an excellent track record for bringing innovative products and processes to the marketplace. Our foodservice division leads its industry, and both Hormel Foods international and specialty foods are growing to important status. Jeff Ettinger has been an integral part of our success and is an exceptionally talented leader who will continue to build on our achievements for many years to come."
 
Ettinger began his career with Hormel Foods in December 1989 as a corporate attorney. He became the HORMEL chili product manager in 1995, was named assistant treasurer in 1997 and treasurer in 1998.  In 1999, Ettinger was named a vice president of Hormel Foods Corporation and Jennie-O Foods president.  He later became president and chief operating officer of Jennie-O Turkey Store when Hormel acquired The Turkey Store Company in 2001 and then assumed the role of chief executive officer of Jennie-O Turkey Store in 2003.
 
Most recently, Ettinger was elevated to president and chief operating officer of Hormel Foods Corporation and named to the company's board of directors in May 2004.
"I am fortunate to inherit such a strong company with a rich heritage and tradition.   I admire and respect Joel Johnson and his successful track record, and I greatly appreciate his leadership, mentorship and friendship.  In the future, my role will be to build on the many strengths of Hormel Foods, identifying new ways to continue our strong growth by meeting the ever-changing needs of our consumers," said Ettinger.


