FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20050330164854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 7  REGULATION FD
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
  A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 30, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Mark-Lynn Foods Inc.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 7.01
(c)
          
 
99         Press release issued March 30, 2005
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Fred Halvin
Director, Investor Relations
507-437-5007
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
., March 30, 2005   Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today announced it has purchased privately held Mark-Lynn Foods Inc. of Bremen, Ga., for approximately $42.5 million.  The company anticipates sales of about $50 million, and expects the deal to be $.01 accretive to the 2005 earnings per share.
AUSTIN, Minn
 
Mark-Lynn Foods is an established manufacturer and distributor of a wide array of foodservice items. The company manufactures food products including salt and pepper packets, ketchup, mustard, sauces and salad dressings, creamers, sugar packets as well as jellies, desserts, and drink mixes.
 
"With half of today's U.S. consumer food dollars being spent outside of the home, our acquisition of Mark-Lynn Foods further strengthens the foodservice-focused capabilities within the Specialty Foods Business Segment.  It will be managed by our Diamond Crystal Brands unit," said Joel W. Johnson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Hormel Foods. "Mark-Lynn Foods has a well-established capacity to produce multiple lines of dry and wet products, which is an excellent fit with our existing Specialty Foods manufacturing operations," he added.
 
Mark-Lynn Foods was established in 1983 and is owned by Edward Dickinson, founder and president.  The company currently operates more than 35 production lines within its 156,000-square-foot manufacturing facility on 38 acres in Bremen.
 
About Hormel Foods Corporation
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace.  For each of the past five years, Hormel Foods has been named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by
Forbes
magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, and foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value.  For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
 
About Mark-Lynn Foods Inc.
 
Mark-Lynn Foods Inc. is a leading manufacturer and distributor of a wide array of foodservice items. The company manufactures food products including salt and pepper packets, ketchup, mustard, sauces and salad dressings, creamers, sugar packets as well as jellies, desserts, and drink mixes.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ.  Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Statements and Information that appears on Exhibit 99.1 of the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 2004, which can be accessed at www.hormel.com.


