FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20060919115553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D. C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On September 18, 2006, Hormel Foods Corporation's (the "Company's") Board of Directors elected Jody H. Feragen, age 50, to succeed Michael J. McCoy as chief financial officer of the corporation, effective January 1, 2007.  Mr. McCoy is retiring as chief financial officer on December 31, 2006, but will continue to serve on the Board of Directors through January 1, 2008.
Ms. Feragen began her career with the Company in 2000 as Treasurer and was named vice president in 2001.  Prior to these positions, Ms. Feragen served as Assistant Treasurer for National Computer Systems in Eden Prairie, Minnesota.
Ms. Feragen has no family relationships with any member of the Board or any other executive officer of the Company, and is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Ms. Feragen and the Company have not entered into any employment agreement in connection with her election as chief financial officer.
A press release announcing the election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
On September 19, 2006, the Company also issued a press release announcing the election of the following three new members to its Board of Directors.  These members were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of current Board members Dr. Robert R. Waller and Dr. John W. Allen and the concurrent vote to increase the Board from 13 to 14 members.
Elsa A. Murano, Ph.D., age 47, is Vice Chancellor of Agriculture, Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, and Director of the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station, Texas A&M University.  Robert C. Nakasone, age 58, is principal in NAK Enterprises, LLC, an equity capital, consulting and advisory firm.  Mr. Nakasone is a member of the board of directors of Staples, Inc., Farmington, MA and E-Funds, Inc., Scottsdale, AZ.  Hugh C. Smith, M.D., age 66, is a professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and a consultant in the cardiovascular division at Mayo Clinic.
Ms. Murano will join the Audit Committee, Pension Investment Committee and Contingency Committee.  Mr. Nakasone will join the Audit Committee, Pension Investment Committee and Contingency Committee.  Mr. Smith will join the Governance Committee, Pension Investment Committee, and Contingency Committee.
None of the elected members are party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, and the Company has not entered into arrangements in connection with their elections to the Board of Directors.
2
The press release announcing these elections is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02
(c)
          
Press release, dated September 19, 2006, announcing the election of Jody H. Feragen as chief financial officer
99.1
        
Press release, dated September 19, 2006, announcing the election of three new members to the Company's Board of Directors
99.2
        
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
AUSTIN, MINN.  (Sept. 19, 2006)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE:HRL) today announced the planned retirement of Michael J. McCoy, executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Austin, Minn.-based multinational consumer foods company.  Jody H. Feragen will succeed McCoy and serve as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Feragen is being promoted from her position as vice president finance and treasurer.
In addition, the Board elected Ronald W. Fielding as executive vice president grocery products, effective Jan. 1, 2007. Fielding will continue his responsibilities leading the grocery products division and will assume additional responsibilities in company acquisitions.
McCoy, a 12-year employee of Hormel Foods, will retire effective Dec. 31, 2006, and will remain a director of Hormel Foods Corporation through Jan. 1, 2008.
"Mike's contribution to our success at Hormel Foods is significant and recognized throughout the industry. He has enhanced the reputation of our accounting and IT groups, fostered the development of people, emphasized a tight focus on controlling capital, and kept our company at the forefront of changes in the area of corporate governance," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, president and CEO. "In addition to his responsibilities as CFO, Mike has led our acquisition efforts for the past six years, resulting in the addition of $1.2 billion in acquired company sales to our portfolio. We offer our best wishes to Mike and his wife, Marge, for a wonderful retirement."
Feragen will assume her new responsibilities as senior vice president and chief financial officer effective Jan. 1, 2007. She will be responsible for overseeing all financial areas of Hormel Foods Corporation, including general accounting, information technology, cost accounting and treasury.
1
"Jody Feragen brings a wealth of financial experience to her new position. She is an excellent manager with an enthusiasm for limiting costs, and she will enhance our management team in her new role," Ettinger said. With respect to Ron Fielding, Ettinger stated, "While Ron's primary focus will remain on growing our grocery products unit, our company will benefit from being able to access Ron's strategic thinking and negotiation skills as we pursue acquisitions in the future."
Roland G. Gentzler, currently assistant controller and director of refrigerated foods accounting, will succeed Feragen as vice president finance and treasurer, effective Jan. 1, 2007. His new responsibilities will include financial analysis, SEC reporting, risk management, cash management, tax and credit.
Russell C. Potter, director of grocery products production, was named vice president grocery products operations, effective immediately. In this position, Potter will continue to be responsible for the grocery products processing plant and co-packer operations.
About Hormel Foods
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. In each of the past six years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
2

Exhibit 99.2
AUSTIN, MINN.  (Sept. 19, 2006)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE:HRL) today announced the addition of three new members to the Board of Directors of the Austin, Minn.-based multinational consumer foods company. Elsa A. Murano, Ph.D., Robert C. Nakasone and Hugh C. Smith, M.D., were elected at the Board of Directors meeting Sept. 18.  Murano, Nakasone and Smith were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of long-time Board members Dr. Robert R. Waller and Dr. John W. Allen and the concurrent vote to increase the Board from 13 to 14 members.
"The Board is very pleased to welcome its three newest directors," said Joel W. Johnson, chairman of the board. "The caliber of professionalism and experience in these directors will serve to further elevate Hormel Foods."
Dr. Murano, 47, is Vice Chancellor of Agriculture, Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, and Director of the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station, Texas A&M University. She spent three years as Undersecretary of Food Safety in the U.S. Department of Agriculture under President George W. Bush where she developed food safety policy for the USDA and oversaw its implementation. She has served on the faculties of both Texas A&M and Iowa State Universities.
Dr. Murano is a noted expert on food safety, has been widely published and is the recipient of numerous industry recognitions.
Mr. Nakasone, 58, is principal in NAK Enterprises, LLC, an equity capital, consulting and advisory firm. His past experience includes the position of President and CEO of Toys "R" Us, Inc., and Group Vice President of Jewel Companies, Inc.
Mr. Nakasone is a presidential honoree, receiving this award for his excellence in business.
1
Dr. Smith, 66, comes to the Board with a long list of honors, professional experience and leadership positions. He is currently a professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and a consultant in the cardiovascular division at Mayo Clinic. Prior to that, he held the title of the Chief Executive Officer of Mayo ClinicRochester, and was a member of the Board of Trustees of Mayo Clinic.
A native of Manitoba, Canada, Dr. Smith's professional recognitions involve his work in cardiovascular disease and acute care.
About Hormel Foods
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. In each of the past six years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
2


