FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20070216094230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 16, 2007, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended January 28, 2007.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
2

Exhibit 99
 
., February 16, 2007 (BUSINESS WIRE)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2007 first quarter.
AUSTIN, Minn
HIGHLIGHTS
First Quarter
Diluted EPS of $.54, up 8 percent from $.50 per share in 2006
                 
Dollar sales of $1.50 billion increased 6 percent from 2006 (up 5 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Volume up 6 percent compared to last year (up 5 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Grocery Products operating profit up 1 percent; volume up 1 percent (down 3 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 1 percent (down 4 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 8 percent; volume up 4 percent (up 3 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 5 percent (up 4 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit down 25 percent; volume up 1 percent; dollar sales up 4 percent
                 
Specialty Foods operating profit up 75 percent; volume up 18 percent (up 16 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 17 percent (up 16 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
All Other operating profit up 65 percent; volume up 35 percent; dollar sales up 33 percent
                 
Company completes Provena acquisition in the quarter
                 
Dan's Prize moved from All Other segment to the Refrigerated Foods segment (prior year reflects change)
                 
The company reported fiscal 2007 first quarter net earnings of $75.3 million, up 9 percent from earnings of $69.3 million a year earlier.  Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.54 this year compared to $.50 per share last year and sales totaled $1.50 billion, up from $1.42 billion in fiscal 2006. 
COMMENTARY
"It was a solid quarter for Hormel Foods. We were able to grow both sales and profits in the first quarter amidst a challenging operating environment," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.  "The Specialty Foods segment and our International business reported another outstanding quarter," Ettinger continued, "and our Refrigerated Foods segment delivered top and bottom line growth by continuing to build its value-added portfolio. Grocery Products, however, delivered lower than expected top and bottom line results, and Jennie-O Turkey Store reported a significant decline in earnings as a result of a sharp run-up in grain costs. Overall, I am pleased with our continued
success in marketing innovative products and in growing our value-added business throughout our various segments," Ettinger concluded.
SEGMENT OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS  FIRST QUARTER
Grocery Products (14% of Net Sales, 26% of Total Operating Profit)
The Grocery Products segment reported a 1 percent increase in both net sales and operating profit compared to last year.  The microwave tray line of products continues to gain momentum with higher net sales and increasing household penetration indicated during the quarter.  With additional production capacity now available, we are increasing our promotional and marketing support for this product line.  bacon bits also reported double-digit growth in the quarter.  Lower sales were reported for the family of products, canned products, and sauces.  Increased marketing activity, along with our continued efforts to contemporize these product lines, is planned for the remainder of the year to generate improved net sales and operating profit.  There was good momentum in this segment as we ended the first quarter.
HORMEL
SPAM
DINTY MOORE
CHI-CHI'S
Refrigerated Foods (53% of Net Sales, 32% of Total Operating Profit)
Strong results for value-added products in the Refrigerated Foods segment led to an 8 percent increase in operating profit for the quarter.  Both the Foodservice and Meat Products (retail) business units contributed to the increase.  Retail products exhibiting double-digit growth include sliced pepperoni, products, and party trays.  Our pre-sliced sandwich meats continue to gain distribution. We have expanded the brand into the service deli and retail ham categories.  Foodservice products posting strong results include premium pork, and Applewood smoked bacon.  Our Dan's Prize business, which was moved into the segment in fiscal year 2007, also reported strong results for the quarter.
HORMEL
DILUSSO DELI COMPANY
NATURAL CHOICE
NATURAL CHOICE
ALWAYS TENDER
AUSTIN BLUES BBQ,
Jennie-O Turkey Store (18% of Net Sales, 23% of Total Operating Profit)
Operating profits for the Jennie-O Turkey Store segment declined compared to last year as a result of higher input costs.  Higher grain markets and costs associated with outside meat purchases contributed to the decline in profitability.  Helping to offset these costs is continued growth in value-added products.  Value-added net sales increased 13 percent for the quarter compared to last year with increases shown in each channel (retail, deli, and foodservice).  Products such as turkey burgers, rotisserie turkey, and retail traypack continue to gain positive acceptance with consumers.  We are aggressively seeking ways to offset our continued expectation of higher grain costs through building our branded product portfolio, increasing prices, and reducing costs.
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
Specialty Foods (12% of Net Sales, 14% of Total Operating Profit)
Favorable results in the Specialty Foods segment continued again this quarter with operating profits up 75 percent compared to first quarter last year.  Each of the three businesses in the segment, including Diamond Crystal Brands, Hormel Specialty Products, and Century Foods International, reported double-digit increases in operating profits for the quarter.  Products that drove growth include liquid portion packets, blended nutritional products, and ready-to-drink items. 
All Other (3% of Net Sales, 5% of Total Operating Profit)
The All Other segment, which includes the International business unit, reported strong results for the quarter with net sales and operating profits up 33 percent and 65 percent, respectively.  Results were driven by the continuation of strong export sales, particularly in chili and foodservice products.  The China operations continue to experience robust growth in net sales and tonnage while operating profits have been constrained by higher hog input costs.
STAGG
OUTLOOK
"The sharp rise in grain markets has added a new dynamic to our business and to the food industry in general.  We anticipate higher grain costs will continue to burden our turkey operation and we are working hard to find ways to offset this extra expense, including through advances in pricing.  At this time, we are maintaining our fiscal 2007 guidance of $2.15 - $2.25.  Our guidance range for the second quarter of 2007 is $0.47 - $0.53 per share," Ettinger concluded.
DIVIDENDS
 consecutive quarterly dividend.  The annual rate is $.60 per share.
Effective February 15, 2007, the company paid its 314
th
CONFERENCE CALL
A conference call will be Webcast at 10:30 a.m. CT on Friday, February 16, 2007.  Access is available at www.hormel.com.  If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to an audio replay, call 800-642-1687 in the United States and 706-645-9291 internationally and enter conference call ID 8264168.  The Webcast replay will be available at 12:00 (noon) CT, February 16, and archived for one year.  The audio replay will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. CT on Friday, February 16, 2007, through 11:00 p.m. CT on March 16, 2007.
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry.  The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace.  For the past six years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine.  The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products that are highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value.  For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ materially.  Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements that appears on pages 33-37 in the company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended October 29, 2006, which can be accessed at www.hormel.com under "Investor-Annual Report."
Segment Data
Fiscal 2007 First Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 


