FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20071002085654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
 
On October 1, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of the following three new members to its Board of Directors. These members were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of current Board members John R. Block, Peter Gillette Jr., and Michael J. McCoy, all effective on October 1, 2007.
 
Terrell "Terry" K. Crews, age 52, is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of Monsanto Company, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. Jody H. Feragen, age 51, is senior vice president and chief financial officer of Hormel Foods Corporation. Ronald D. Pearson, age 67, is chairman emeritus of Hy-Vee, Inc., headquartered in West Des Moines, Iowa.
 
Mr. Crews will join the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee. Mr. Pearson will join the Audit Committee and the Pension Investment Committee.
 
None of the elected members are party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, and the Company has not entered into any material contracts or arrangements in connection with their elections to the Board of Directors.
 
The press release announcing these elections is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
AUSTIN, Minn.Oct. 1, 2007Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE:HRL) today announced the addition of three new members to the Hormel Foods Corporation Board of Directors of the Austin, Minn., based multinational consumer foods company.
 
Terrell "Terry" K. Crews, Jody H. Feragen and Ronald D. Pearson were elected at the Board of Directors meeting held Oct. 1. Crews, Feragen and Pearson were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of long-time Board members John R. Block, Peter Gillette Jr. and Michael J. McCoy. Block became a director in 1997; Gillette became a director in 1996; and McCoy became a director in 2000.
 
"Our company has benefited greatly from the invaluable leadership and insight provided by John, Peter and Mike," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. "We wish them the very best in their retirements."
 
Crews, 52 is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of Monsanto Company, headquartered in St. Louis, Mo. In his 30-year career with Monsanto, he has served in a variety of financial leadership roles, including controller for Latin America, finance lead for Monsanto's Asia Pacific operations, general auditor of Monsanto and chief financial officer of the Monsanto Global Seed Group. He was appointed to his current position in March 2000.
,
 
Feragen, 51, is senior vice president and chief financial officer of Hormel Foods Corporation. She joined the company in 2000 as treasurer, assuming the title of vice president and treasurer in 2001. She was promoted to vice president of finance and treasurer in 2005, and was named senior vice president and chief financial officer in 2007. Prior to joining Hormel Foods, she was assistant treasurer for National Computer Systems.
 
Pearson, 67 is chairman emeritus of Hy-Vee, Inc., headquartered in West Des Moines, Iowa. Pearson started with Hy-Vee in 1960 as a part-time employee during college, and over his career served as store manager in Cedar Falls, Iowa; district manager; assistant vice president; vice president, retail operations; and executive vice president. In 1983, he was elected president and chief operating officer, and in 1989, he was elected chief executive officer, chairman of the board and president. He is past chair of the Food Marketing Institute (FMI) and serves on its board of directors and executive committee.
,
 
About Hormel Foods
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best
known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. For each of the past eight years, Hormel Foods has been named one of "The Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormel.com.


