FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20071120092215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 20, 2007, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended October 28, 2007. A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)       Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 2.02
 
99       Earnings release issued November 20, 2007
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
. (November 20, 2007)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2007 fourth quarter and full year.
AUSTIN, Minn
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
Fourth Quarter
Diluted EPS of $.73, up 14 percent from $.64 per share in 2006 (2007 results include $.02 per share gain from the sale of a company airplane and $.01 per share gain from the disposition of the Patak's joint venture)
             
Dollar sales of $1.66 billion increased 7 percent from 2006 (up 4 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Volume the same as last year (down 2 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Grocery Products operating profit down 9 percent; volume up 3 percent; dollar sales up 2 percent
             
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 15 percent; volume up 2 percent (down 3 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 8 percent (up 3 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit up 15 percent; volume down 1 percent; dollar sales up 7 percent
             
Specialty Foods operating profit down 13 percent; volume down 6 percent; dollar sales up 5 percent
             
All Other operating profit up 10 percent; volume up 7 percent; dollar sales up 22 percent
             
Announced 23% dividend increase today
             
 
Fiscal Year
Diluted EPS of $2.17, up 6 percent from $2.05 per share in 2006 (2007 results include the same special events as noted above)
             
Dollar sales of $6.19 billion increased 8 percent from 2006 (up 6 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Volume up 3 percent (up 2 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Grocery Products operating profit up 3 percent; volume up 2 percent; dollar sales up 4 percent
             
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 17 percent; volume up 3 percent (up 1 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 8 percent (up 6 percent excluding acquisitions)
             
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit down 17 percent; volume up 1 percent; dollar sales up 5 percent
             
Specialty Foods operating profit up 27 percent; volume up 4 percent; dollar sales up 11 percent
             
All Other operating profit up 34 percent; volume up 20 percent; dollar sales up 26 percent
             
The company reported fiscal 2007 fourth quarter net earnings of $101.2 million, up 12 percent from earnings of $90.0 million a year earlier. Included in this year's quarterly results are a $4.8 million pre-tax gain from the sale of a company airplane and a $2.0 million pre-tax gain from the disposition of the Patak's joint venture. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.73 this year compared to $.64 per share last year and sales totaled $1.66 billion, up from $1.56 billion in fiscal 2006.
 
For the twelve months ended October 28, 2007, net earnings were $301.9 million, or $2.17 per diluted share (up 6 percent), compared to $286.1 million a year ago, or $2.05 per diluted share. Included in this year's annual results are a $4.8 million pre-tax gain from the sale of a company airplane and a $2.0 million pre-tax gain from the disposition of the Patak's joint venture. Sales totaled $6.19 billion, up 8 percent, from $5.75 billion in the same period last year.
 
 
COMMENTARY
 
"We were pleased to end the year with a strong finish that allowed us to deliver respectable full year results in a challenging environment. The strength of the fourth quarter's results provides good momentum heading into fiscal 2008," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. "I was encouraged to see that despite significantly higher grain markets, Jennie-O Turkey Store increased year-over-year segment profit this quarter. Improved product mix, operations efficiencies and better recovery of higher costs through pricing were the key drivers," Ettinger stated.
 
"As indicated during our Investor Day in October, we expected that our Grocery Products segment would be down. While the Grocery Products results were disappointing, primarily caused by a soft quarter from the family of products and chunk meats, we continued to have success building our microwave tray business. We also had strong results from our chili business, up double-digit for the quarter. We expect the Grocery Products segment will have a slow start in fiscal 2008 and the results will improve as the year progresses," said Ettinger.
SPAM
VALLEY FRESH
HORMEL COMPLEATS
 
"The lower Specialty Foods segment results were primarily due to a very difficult year-ago comparison. This segment has delivered exceptional top and bottom line growth over the last two years. As we have indicated in the past, we expect the long-term growth rate of this segment to be similar to our total company growth rate goals of 5 percent top-line and 10 percent bottom-line," Ettinger commented.
 
"The Refrigerated Foods segment has been a strong performer all year and the fourth quarter was no exception. Our strategy to be the industry leader in value-added protein has proven successful and we continue to strengthen our portfolio with innovation. The acquisition of Burke Corporation in August has been a great addition to our portfolio and was accretive to this quarter's results," Ettinger said.
 
"Considering the higher input cost challenges we faced, I am pleased with the results. I believe our balanced model of packaged foods and protein products in addition to our blend of foodservice and retail sales, provides the right combination of stability in difficult environments, yet offers upside opportunity when conditions turn favorable," Ettinger stated.
"This morning we announced a 23% increase to our annual dividend rate, making the new rate $.74 per share. We have an exceptional history of returning profits to our shareholders through dividend increases. Based on our confidence to deliver improved cash flow in the future, we are pleased that we could provide a substantial increase this year as another way to reward our shareholders," Ettinger concluded.
 
 
SEGMENT OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS  FOURTH QUARTER
 
Grocery Products (15% of Net Sales, 27% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The Grocery Products segment reported operating profits down 9 percent compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. Results are being driven by lower sales and volumes of the family of products and chunk meats. The family of products faced a difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the positive impact of aggressive trade programs executed last year. Results for the product line were down due to less effective trade programs. The product line continues to grow with expanded distribution and higher household penetration achieved during the quarter. The and chili brands both reported strong top line growth.
SPAM
VALLEY FRESH
SPAM
VALLEY FRESH
HORMEL COMPLEATS
HORMEL
STAGG
 
Refrigerated Foods (51% of Net Sales, 33% of Total Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit increased 15 percent for the quarter in the Refrigerated Foods segment. Strong results were posted by the Meat Products (retail) and Foodservice value-added businesses due to very good consumer demand for key product lines. Value-added product margins also improved due to lower pork markets. Key product contributors from the Meat Products business unit included marinated meats, products, and party trays. Higher sales of the product lines also added to the segment's results. Foodservice products having strong growth for the quarter included sliced meats, barbeque products, and premium fresh pork. The acquisition of Burke Corporation was accretive in the quarter and the integration is proceeding as planned.
ALWAYS TENDER
DiLUSSO DELI COMPANY
HORMEL
HORMEL NATURAL CHOICE
BREAD READY
AUSTIN BLUES
 
Jennie-O Turkey Store (20% of Net Sales, 27% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had a strong quarter with operating profit up 15 percent compared to last year. The combination of mix improvement, operations efficiencies and better recovery of higher costs through pricing more than offset incremental feed costs of $29 million during the quarter. Value-added sales grew 10 percent with increases shown in each of the retail, foodservice, and deli divisions. Key product lines contributing to the growth were turkeys and rotisserie products, premium deli products, and frozen turkey burgers.
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE OVEN READY
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
 
Specialty Foods (11% of Net Sales, 8% of Total Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit declined 13 percent in the Specialty Foods segment for the quarter compared to last year. The Century Foods International business unit had a difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 when a major product line was introduced. The Hormel Specialty Products division had lower sales volumes and profits for the quarter. Operating profit increased slightly in the Diamond Crystal Brands business unit due to continued product mix improvement.
All Other (3% of Net Sales, 5% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The International business unit had a good quarter with operating profit up 10 percent compared to the fourth quarter last year. Value-added sales growth and worldwide demand for the family of products continued to be strong with double digit increases in both volume and net sales during the quarter. Equity in earnings of affiliates improved compared to last year due primarily to better results at our Purefoods-Hormel joint venture in the Philippines. Operating profit was flat compared to last year for our China operations as that business unit continues to experience high hog input costs.
SPAM
 
Net Interest and Investment Income
 
Net interest and investment income improved compared to last year as a result of the $2.0 million pre-tax gain on the disposition of the Patak's joint venture and $3.0 million of higher returns on our rabbi trust investments. These gains were partially offset by $1.3 million higher interest costs from higher short-term debt balances in 2007.
 
General Corporate Expense
 
General corporate expense improved due to the $4.8 million pre-tax gain on the sale of a company airplane recorded in the fourth quarter. Expenses excluding this item are at a normalized level.
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
"Effective with fiscal 2008, our new earning guidance procedure will be to provide only annual guidance. We feel this is consistent with the long-term view the company takes in making business decisions. We will continue to provide investors with information and insight into strategic initiatives, growth and value drivers, and industry data critical to understanding the company's business and operating environment.
 
As we look forward to 2008, we are confident that we will return to our long-term earnings per share growth objective of 10 percent. Although we anticipate pressure from higher grain and energy costs, we expect to benefit from lower protein input costs. We are excited about the growth potential behind our value-added product portfolio and our ability to meet the consumer's needs through new product launches. After assessing these industry factors and our business plans and prospects for the upcoming year, we are setting our fiscal 2008 guidance range at $2.30 - $2.40 per share," Ettinger concluded.
DIVIDENDS
 
Effective November 15, 2007, the company paid its 317 consecutive quarterly dividend. The 2007 annual rate was $.60 per share. The 2008 rate announced this morning is $.74.
th
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
A conference call will be Webcast at 9:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, November 20, 2007. Access is available at . If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to the call over the phone, the dial in number is 800-366-7417. An audio replay is available by calling 800-405-2236 and entering access code 11102214. The audio replay will be available beginning at 11:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, November 20, 2007, through 11:59 p.m. CT on December 5, 2007. The Webcast replay will be available at 11:00 a.m. CT, November 20, and archived for one year.
www.hormelfoods.com
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. For each of the past eight years, Hormel Foods has been named one of "The Best Big Companies in America" by magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers and foodservice customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormelfoods.com.
Forbes
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions. Actual events may differ materially. Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements and risk factors that appear on pages 26-31 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 29, 2007, which can be accessed at under "Investor-SEC Filings."
www.hormelfoods.com
 Segment Data
 
Fiscal 2007 Fourth Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


