FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20070823091023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 23, 2007, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended July 29, 2007.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 2.02
(c)
          
99        Earnings release issued August 23, 2007
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
2

Exhibit 99
 
. (August 23, 2007)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2007 third quarter.
AUSTIN, Minn
HIGHLIGHTS
Third Quarter
Consolidated segment operating profit up 6 percent compared to last year
   
Diluted EPS of $.41, down 5 percent from $.43 per share in 2006 (higher effective tax rate in 2007)
   
Dollar sales of $1.52 billion increased 8 percent from 2006 (up 7 percent excluding acquisitions)
   
Volume up 1 percent compared to last year (same as last year excluding acquisitions)
   
Grocery Products operating profit down 2 percent; volume down 1 percent; dollar sales up 1 percent
   
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 23 percent; volume down 1 percent (down 2 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 9 percent (up 7 percent excluding acquisitions)
   
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit down 19 percent; volume down 1 percent; dollar sales up 4 percent
   
Specialty Foods operating profit up 28 percent; volume up 6 percent; dollar sales up 14 percent
   
All Other operating profit up 67 percent; volume up 16 percent; dollar sales up 27 percent
   
Announced the acquisition of Burke Corporation today
   
The company reported fiscal 2007 third quarter net earnings of $57.4 million, down 4 percent from earnings of $59.6 million a year earlier.  Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.41 this year compared to $.43 per share last year and sales totaled $1.52 billion, up from $1.41 billion in fiscal 2006.
For the nine months ended July 29, 2007, net earnings were $200.7 million, or $1.44 per diluted share (up 2 percent), compared to $196.1 million a year ago, or $1.41 per diluted share.  Sales totaled $4.53 billion, up 8 percent, from $4.19 billion in the same period last year.
COMMENTARY
"As we previously announced, the higher than expected input costs within the Grocery Products segment pressured profitability more than we anticipated. This caused the company to fall short of the original expectations for the quarter," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.  "Within the Grocery Products segment, we saw mixed results for the quarter.  For example, we had significant distribution gains and sales growth from
1
our microwave trays.  However, part of this growth was offset from weakness in our chunk chicken and sauce business," Ettinger stated.
HORMEL COMPLEATS
CHI-CHI'S
"While we were disappointed with the overall results, we were encouraged by the 6 percent growth in our consolidated segment operating profit lead by strong year-over-year performance in Refrigerated Foods, Specialty Foods and the International division.  We were also satisfied with the progress Jennie-O Turkey Store is making to offset the higher grain input costs through higher pricing.  Based on this progress, we expect Jennie-O Turkey Store will meet last year's fourth quarter results," Ettinger commented.
"An important part of our growth plan is to make strategic acquisitions that fit into our business system and leverages our infrastructure. This morning we announced the purchase of Burke Corporation, a manufacturer of pizza-toppings and other fully-cooked meat products, which fits this profile perfectly.  This addition will strengthen our position in the pizza-topping industry and will expand our existing product offering to foodservice customers.  This acquisition will be accretive to fiscal 2008 and has annual sales of $125 million," Ettinger concluded.
SEGMENT OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS  THIRD QUARTER
Grocery Products (13% of Net Sales, 26% of Total Operating Profit)
 anniversary.
Operating profit in the Grocery Products segment declined 2 percent compared to last year.  Higher commodity input costs (pork, beef, chicken) pressured margins throughout the quarter.  Price advances taken on part of the product portfolio at the beginning of the quarter were not enough to offset the higher input costs.  The profitability of the Family of products, chunk chicken, and bacon bits were all negatively affected by higher input costs.  Profits were also down from lower than expected sales of sauces and chunk meats.  The microwave tray line of products continues to gain market share and grow at a double-digit pace.  Volume and net sales of the Family of products were also strong during the quarter behind promotional support for the product's 70
SPAM
HORMEL
CHI CHI'S
VALLEY FRESH
HORMEL COMPLEATS
SPAM
th
Refrigerated Foods (54% of Net Sales, 35% of Total Operating Profit)
The Refrigerated Foods segment reported a 9 percent increase in sales and a 23 percent increase in operating profit for the quarter.  The strong performances from our Meat Products and Foodservice value-added businesses were key contributors to the increase in operating profit.  In Meat Products, strong volume and sales results were generated by flavored meats, party trays, refrigerated entrees, and products.  The line of products also continues to gain distribution and consumer acceptance.  Foodservice products posting strong results include sliced meats and products.  Farmer John also continued to see improvement in operating results this quarter driven by demand for foodservice products such as sliced ham and precooked breakfast meats.
ALWAYS TENDER
HORMEL
HORMEL
DILUSSO DELI COMPANY
NATURAL CHOICE
BREAD READY
AUSTIN BLUES BBQ
2
Jennie-O Turkey Store (19% of Net Sales, 20% of Total Operating Profit)
Operating profit for the Jennie-O Turkey Store segment was 19 percent lower than last year.  Price advances have helped reduce the earnings gap caused by higher grain input costs, and we expect further progress to be made in the fourth quarter.  Value-added sales in the segment grew 8 percent behind strong demand for products across each of the retail, deli, and foodservice channels.  frozen turkey burgers continue to grow in both the retail and foodservice markets.  The rotisserie line of products also performed well in the quarter with a double-digit increase in volume.
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
Specialty Foods (11% of Net Sales, 14% of Total Operating Profit)
The Specialty Foods segment reported segment profit 28 percent higher for the third quarter compared to last year.  Each of the business units in the segment contributed to the higher profits.  The Specialty Products business unit continued to benefit from price increases for specialty ingredients and double-digit volume and sales growth in contract manufacturing.  Results at Diamond Crystal Brands were driven by a favorable product mix shift as higher sales of nutritional products offset lower commodity sugar volume.  Century Foods also continued to deliver solid growth behind strong demand for ready-to-drink and nutritional jar products.
All Other (3% of Net Sales, 5% of Total Operating Profit)
The All Other segment, which includes the International business unit, had another strong quarter with operating profit up 67 percent compared to last year.  Strong volume and sales growth of value-added products was a major driver of the higher profits.  The company continues to have success building worldwide demand for the Family of products and chili.  Profitability in the segment was also improved by higher equity in earnings of affiliates from our joint venture in the Philippines.  The company's China operations reported lower profits as price advances have not offset higher hog input costs.
SPAM
STAGG
General Corporate Expense
General corporate expense was higher compared to last year mostly due to a $2.3 million gain on the sale of a company airplane recognized in 2006.  The balance of the difference relates to the timing of accruals.  The 2007 year-to-date expenses are at a normalized level.
Effective Tax Rate
This quarter's effective tax rate of 36.4 percent was slightly higher than our expected 35.6 percent rate because of an unfavorable discrete tax event.  It was significantly higher than last year's rate of 32.0 percent because last year included favorable discrete tax events.  The earnings per share impact between last year's rate and this year's rate is $.03 per share.
3
OUTLOOK
"As noted in our preannouncement on August 9, we expect to see higher input costs continue into the fourth quarter.  During these periods of commodity inflation, we remain focused on the long-term objectives of the company to grow the business through new product development and build upon our market share positions in our key categories," Ettinger said.
After assessing industry factors and our business plans and prospects, we are reaffirming our previous guidance range of $.62 - $.68 per share for the fourth quarter and the full year range is $2.06 - $2.12," Ettinger concluded.
DIVIDENDS
 consecutive quarterly dividend.  The annual rate is $.60 per share.
Effective August 15, 2007, the company paid its 316
th
CONFERENCE CALL
A conference call will be Webcast at 9:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, August 23, 2007.  Access is available at www.hormel.com.  If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to the call over the phone, the dial in number is 800-218-0713.  An audio replay is available by calling 800-405-2236 and entering access code 11094727.  The audio replay will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, August 23, 2007, through 11:59 p.m. CT on September 7, 2007. The Webcast replay will be available at 11:30 a.m. CT, August 23, and archived for one year.
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. For each of the past eight years, Hormel Foods has been named one of "The Best Big Companies in America" by magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormel.com.
Forbes
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ materially.  Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements that appears on pages 26-31 in the company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 29, 2007, which can be accessed at www.hormel.com under "Investor-SEC Filings."
4
Segment Data
Fiscal 2007 Third Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
5
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
6
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
 
7
HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
8


