FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20080215095901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 15, 2008, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended January 27, 2008.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)     Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 2.02
 
99     Earnings release issued February 15, 2008
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
AUSTIN, Minn
. (Feb. 15, 2008)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2008 first quarter.
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
                 
Diluted EPS of $.64, up 19 percent from $.54 per share in 2007
                 
Dollar sales of $1.62 billion increased 8 percent from 2007 (up 5 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Volume up 5 percent compared to last year (up 3 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Operating profit up 25 percent from 2007
                 
Grocery Products operating profit up 10 percent; volume up 6 percent; dollar sales up 10 percent
                 
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 50 percent; volume up 8 percent (up 3 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales up 8 percent (up 3 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit up 16 percent; volume up 3 percent; dollar sales up 5 percent
                 
Specialty Foods operating profit up 1 percent; volume down 4 percent; dollar sales up 7 percent
                 
All Other operating profit up 39 percent; volume up 6 percent; dollar sales up 21 percent
 
The company reported fiscal 2008 first quarter net earnings of $88.2 million, up 17 percent from earnings of $75.3 million a year earlier.  Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.64 this year compared to $.54 per share last year.  Sales totaled $1.62 billion, up from $1.50 billion in fiscal 2007.
 
COMMENTARY
 
"Our team has ample reason to be proud of our results in the first quarter, continuing the momentum we achieved in the last quarter of fiscal 2007," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. "Our Refrigerated Foods segment led the way, as lower pork input costs combined with increased sales of value-added products generated a significant increase in earnings.  Our Grocery Products segment also delivered higher than expected sales and earnings, aided by strong sales of the SPAM family of products and continued growth of the HORMEL COMPLEATS microwave product line.  We are pleased to have recently announced our decision to build a new $89 million plant in Dubuque, Iowa, scheduled to open in November 2009, to support our HORMEL COMPLEATS microwave tray business."
 
"Jennie-O Turkey Store overcame higher commodity grain input costs through a combination of recaptured pricing, product mix improvements, and manufacturing efficiencies, to turn in an excellent quarter as well.  Our International segment had another outstanding quarter, posting
 
double-digit increases in dollar sales and profits, primarily attributable to strong export sales of the SPAM family of products and fresh pork," Ettinger said.  "Finally, the Specialty Foods segment showed strong sales growth but flat earnings, as it sought to offset increased input costs with added contract manufacturing volumes and an improved product mix."
 
"We expect higher grain input and fuel costs for the balance of the year, which will impact Jennie-O Turkey Store and portions of our Refrigerated Foods business.  However, anticipated lower hog input costs, price advances, and manufacturing efficiencies will help offset these increased costs," Ettinger continued.  "Our success with adding value to our products and improving the product mix, along with our balanced business model, should allow us to continue to be successful in spite of volatility in the commodity markets."
 
SEGMENT OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS  FIRST QUARTER
 
Grocery Products (14% of Net Sales, 22% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The Grocery Products segment had a great start to the year with segment profit up 10 percent compared to last year.  Continued growth of the microwave product line was a key driver during the quarter.  Strong sales of the family of products and and chili also contributed to top and bottom line results for the segment.  Results for the and product lines were down for the quarter compared to last year but additional marketing and promotional support is planned to drive improved results for these brands.
HORMEL COMPLEATS
SPAM
HORMEL
STAGG
CHI-CHI'S
VALLEY FRESH
 
Refrigerated Foods (53% of Net Sales, 39% of Total Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit increased 50 percent in the Refrigerated Foods segment compared to the first quarter last year.  Lower pork raw material input costs led to significant margin expansion across the segment's value-added businesses.  Sales of key value-added products also increased during the quarter.  The Meat Products business unit recorded double-digit sales increases in refrigerated entrees and sandwich meats.  The integration of Burke Corporation continues to proceed as planned and was accretive to the first quarter results.
HORMEL
HORMEL NATURAL CHOICE
 
Jennie-O Turkey Store (18% of Net Sales, 22% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The Jennie-O Turkey Store segment posted operating profit results 16 percent higher than last year for the first quarter.  The segment was able to overcome higher commodity grain input costs through a combination of higher pricing, product mix improvements, and manufacturing efficiencies.  Value-added revenue grew 5 percent with each of the retail, deli, and foodservice divisions contributing to the increase.  Key products posting strong first quarter results include frozen turkey burgers, marinated tenderloins, and rotisserie deli products.
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
JENNIE-O TURKEY STORE
 
Specialty Foods (12% of Net Sales, 11% of Total Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit in the Specialty Foods segment increased 1 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  Sales and operating profit were higher for the quarter in the Specialty Products business unit behind strong demand for contract manufacturing.  Century Foods International also posted improved profit results due to a favorable product mix shift.  Operating profit was
slightly lower in the Diamond Crystal Brands business unit as a better product mix was unable to completely offset higher input costs.
 
All Other (3% of Net Sales, 6% of Total Operating Profit)
 
The International business unit had another strong quarter with operating profit up 39 percent compared to last year.  Strong export sales of the family of products, chili, and fresh pork were key drivers during the quarter.  The profitability of our China operations also improved compared to last year as a result of higher selling prices and a continued emphasis on growing value-added sales.  Equity in earnings of affiliates improved compared to last year due to better results at our Purefoods-Hormel joint venture in the Philippines.
SPAM
STAGG
 
Net Interest and Investment Income
 
Net interest and investment income declined for the quarter due primarily to $6.3 million of lower returns on our rabbi trust investment.  Interest expense was slightly higher for the quarter due to higher outstanding short-term debt balances related to the Burke acquisition.
 
OUTLOOK
 
"We are reconfirming our fiscal 2008 guidance range of $2.30-$2.40 per share.  Although we anticipate pressure from higher than expected grain and energy costs, we expect to continue to benefit from lower protein input costs.  The strength of our core businesses, the growth of our value-added products, and the ability of our people to adapt to changes in the business environment should allow us to meet our goals," Ettinger concluded.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
Effective Feb. 15, 2008, the company will pay its 318 consecutive quarterly dividend.  The annual rate is $.74.
th
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
A conference call will be Webcast at 10:00 a.m. CT on Friday, Feb. 15, 2008.  Access is available at www.hormelfoods.com.  If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to the call over the phone, the dial in number is 800-218-0713.  An audio replay is available by calling 800-405-2236 and entering access code 11107655#.  The audio replay will be available beginning at 12:00 p.m. CT on Friday, Feb. 15, 2008, through 11:59 p.m. CT on March 1, 2008. The Webcast replay will be available at 12:00 p.m. CT, Friday, Feb. 15, 2008, and archived for one year.
 
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. For each of the past nine years, Hormel Foods has been named one of "The Best Big Companies in America" by magazine. The company enjoys a strong
Forbes
 
reputation among consumers, retail grocers and foodservice customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit www.hormelfoods.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions.  Actual events may differ materially.  Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements and risk factors that appear on pages 32-35 in the company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended Oct. 28, 2007, which can be accessed at www.hormelfoods.com under "Investors-SEC Filings."
 
 
Segment Data
 
Fiscal 2008 First Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


