FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20090219085558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 19, 2009, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended January 25, 2009.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)       Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 2.02
 
99          Earnings release issued February 19, 2009
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
. (Feb. 19, 2009)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal 2009 first quarter.
AUSTIN, Minn
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
Diluted EPS of $.60, down 6 percent from $.64 per share in 2008
                 
Segment operating profit down 14 percent from last year
                 
Dollar sales of $1.7 billion up 4 percent from 2008
                 
Volume down 1 percent from 2008
                 
Grocery Products operating profit up 9 percent; volume up 2 percent; dollar sales up 6 percent
                 
Refrigerated Foods operating profit down 27 percent; volume down 2 percent; dollar sales up 5 percent
                 
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit down 16 percent; volume flat; dollar sales up 5 percent
                 
Specialty Foods operating profit down 16 percent; volume down 8 percent (down 11 percent excluding acquisitions); dollar sales down 5 percent (down 8 percent excluding acquisitions)
                 
All Other operating profit down 9 percent; volume up 15 percent; dollar sales up 17 percent
                 
 
The company reported fiscal 2009 first quarter net earnings of $81.4 million, down 8 percent from earnings of $88.2 million a year earlier.  Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.60 this year compared to $.64 per share last year and sales totaled $1.69 billion, up from $1.62 billion in fiscal 2008.
 
COMMENTARY
 
"Despite a very challenging economic climate, our first quarter results leave us on track to meet our annual earnings guidance goal. As anticipated, we started out the year with weaker operating results, resulting in a decline of 4 cents per share from our record earnings of a year ago. Our Grocery Products segment had a solid quarter, led by strong canned meat sales. Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment is doing a good job of addressing the difficult market conditions, including very weak commodity meat markets and higher input costs that continue to work their way through the system," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.
 
"Our Refrigerated Foods segment experienced a difficult quarter. Higher than anticipated hog costs, combined with weaker than expected primal markets, led to losses in our pork operations that we were not able to offset, despite a strong performance by our meat products group. Our Specialty Foods and All Other segments also had weaker results," remarked Ettinger.
"Changes in consumer behavior resulting from the recession have had a mixed effect on our sales. We have seen an upswing in sales of many of our retail products, particularly some of our traditional franchises across our different business segments, and a softening of demand for some of our newer convenience items. On balance, our overall retail sales have been relatively strong, while foodservice sales show softness" commented Ettinger.
 
SEGMENT OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS  FIRST QUARTER
 
Grocery Products (14% of Net Sales, 29% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
 
The Grocery Products segment reported a 6 percent sales increase and a 9 percent increase in operating profit for the quarter compared to last year.  Strong sales of canned meat items such as our family of products, stews and chili more than offset softer sales of our microwavable meals.
SPAM
DINTY MOORE
HORMEL
COMPLEATS
 
Refrigerated Foods (53% of Net Sales, 33% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit for the Refrigerated Foods segment decreased 27 percent for the quarter, primarily attributable to a significant decline in the spread between hog costs and primal values.  The Meat Products business unit performed well during the quarter, led by strong results for value-added products such as hams, products, bacon, and sandwich meats. Foodservice sales declined during the quarter, reflecting the decision by consumers to eat more meals at home and the reduction in both business and personal travel.
HORMEL
CURE 81
DILUSSO DELI COMPANY
HORMEL BLACK LABEL
HORMEL NATURAL CHOICE
 
Jennie-O Turkey Store (18% of Net Sales, 21% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
 
Operating profit for Jennie-O Turkey Store was down 16 percent in the first quarter. Higher grain costs compared with a year ago continued to work their way through the system. These were not fully recovered in light of the significantly lower commodity market for breast meat. Continued strong sales of value-added products by the retail group during the quarter helped minimize the decline from our year-ago results.
 
Specialty Foods (11% of Net Sales, 11% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
 
The Specialty Foods group reported a decrease in operating profit of 16 percent. Sales of ready-to-drink and nutritional powders at Century Foods softened due to the difficult economic conditions. Hormel Specialty Products also suffered from reduced contract packaging sales of microwave products. On the other hand, Diamond Crystal Brands experienced solid growth during the quarter, led by improved performance of their nutritional healthcare products.
 
All Other (4% of Net Sales, 6% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
 
The All Other segment, which includes Hormel Foods International, experienced a 9 percent decrease in operating profit for the quarter.  Strong sales from exports of fresh pork and the family of products were unable to fully offset the negative impact of the strengthening US dollar and weaker results experienced by our joint ventures.
SPAM
Net Interest and Investment Income
 
A $1.7 million gain in the rabbi trust investments significantly improved net interest and investment income for the quarter versus last year.
 
General Corporate Expense
 
General corporate expenses for the first quarter were 18 percent lower than last year, due to lower net compensation, pension and insurance expenses.
 
General
 
The company has changed the classification of shipping and handling cost from selling and delivery expense to cost of products sold.  Classification of the expense in cost of products sold better reflects the cost of producing and distributing our products.  The expense has been reclassified in all comparable periods.
 
OUTLOOK
 
"We are reconfirming our fiscal 2009 guidance of $2.15 - $2.25 per share. Although we are on track to meet our goal, we recognize there could be continued challenges to our business as a result of the turbulent economy. We believe our strong consumer franchises, with many good value offerings, and our strong management team should allow us to meet our goals," concluded Ettinger.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
 consecutive quarterly dividend. The annual rate is $.76.
Effective Feb 15, 2009, the Company paid its 322
nd
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
A conference call will be Webcast at 8:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, Feb. 19, 2009. Access is available at www.hormelfoods.com. If you do not have Internet access and want to listen to the call over the phone, the dial in number is 800-366-3908. An audio replay is available by calling 800-405-2236 and entering access code 11125920. The audio replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. CT on Thursday, Feb. 19, 2009, through 11:59 p.m. CT on Friday, March 6, 2009. The Webcast replay will be available at 10:30 a.m. CT, Thursday, Feb. 19, 2009, and archived for one year.
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. In each of the past 10 years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions. Actual events may differ materially. Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors that appear on pages 31-35 in the company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended Oct. 26, 2008, which can be accessed at www.hormelfoods.com under "Investors-SEC Filings."
Segment Data
 
Fiscal 2009 First Quarter Segment Operating Results (in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
* Includes retrospective reclassification of shipping and handling expenses to cost of products sold from selling, general and administrative.
 
 


