FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20091026191504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
 
 
Section 7  REGULATION FD
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On October 26, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of a 50/50 joint venture agreement to create MegaMex Foods, LLC, which will market Mexican foods in the United States.  A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 7.01
 
99    Press release issued October 26, 2009
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
AUSTIN, Minn. (October 26, 2009)
 Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) and Herdez Del Fuerte, S.A. de C.V., today announced the closing of a 50/50 joint venture agreement to create MegaMex Foods, LLC, which will market Mexican foods in the United States.
 
The venture significantly expands the existing agreement between the two companies and produces a portfolio with initial revenue of about $200 million. MegaMex Foods has a comprehensive portfolio that includes brands such as , , ,  and , among others, which resonate with Mexican-American and mainstream consumers of Mexican foods.
CHI-CHI'S
HERDEZ
LA VICTORIA
EMBASA
DOA MARA
 
"This new venture takes our relationship with Hormel Foods to the next level, and it is a win-win all around," said Enrique Hernndez-Pons Torres, chairman of the board, MegaMex Foods. "By forming MegaMex Foods, we are able to better serve our retail and foodservice partners and consumers while positioning our businesses for long-term growth."
 
"The close of this exciting transaction marks the beginning of new leadership in the Mexican foods category in the United States with MegaMex Foods," said Luis G. Marconi, managing director at MegaMex Foods. "We look forward to growing the Mexican foods category by serving as a one-stop-shop for our retail partners, with brands and products that appeal to consumers across geographies and demographics."
 
MegaMex Foods is a free-standing entity with an independent management team based in Chino, Calif. MegaMex Foods will optimize efficiencies by leveraging core competencies of the parent companies, such as manufacturing, research and development and the supply chain.
 
 
About Hormel Foods
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, and in each of the past 10 years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit http://www.hormelfoods.com.
Forbes
 
 
About Herdez Del Fuerte
Herdez Del Fuerte, based in Mexico City, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and beverages in Mexico and the United States. The company has a strong product portfolio mainly based in tomato, fruit, vegetable, jalapeo, mole sauce, coffee and tuna products marketed under highly recognized and valued brands, including , , , , , , ,  and , among others. Herdez Del Fuerte also markets and distributes products from affiliated companies such as Hormel Alimentos, McCormick de Mxico and Barilla Mxico. To fulfill its retail and foodservice customer and consumer needs, Herdez Del Fuerte operates seven manufacturing facilities and nine distribution centers across Mexico with more than 6,000 employees. Herdez Del Fuerte is a joint venture between Grupo Herdez, S.A.B. de C.V., and Grupo KUO, S.A.B. de C.V. For more information, visit http://www.grupoherdez.com.mx and http://www.kuo.com.mx.
HERDEZ
DEL FUERTE
DOA MARA, LA VICTORIA
NAIR
EMBASA
BFALO
LA GLORIA
CARLOTA
BLASN


