FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20091005173645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On October 5, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of Susan K. Nestegard to its Board of Directors.  Ms. Nestegard was nominated to fill the seat created by the retirement of current Board member Luella G. Goldberg.  The press release also announced the retirement of current Board member Gary J. Ray.  The retirements of Ms. Goldberg and Mr. Ray will be effective on November 23, 2009.
 
Ms. Nestegard is the executive vice president of Global Healthcare at Ecolab, Inc., headquartered in St. Paul, MN.  Ms. Nestegard will join the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
Ms. Nestegard is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, and the Company has not entered into any material contracts or arrangements in connection with her election to the Board of Directors.  She will participate in the Hormel Foods Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
The press release announcing this election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02
 
Press release, dated October 5, 2009, announcing the addition of Susan K. Nestegard to the Company's Board of Directors
99.1
                   
SIGNATURES
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
AUSTIN, Minn., (October 5, 2009)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today announced Susan K. Nestegard was elected to the Hormel Foods Board of Directors during its Oct. 3 meeting.
 
"We welcome Susan to the board and look forward to the thoughtful leadership and strategic direction she will provide our company," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer at Hormel Foods.
 
Nestegard is executive vice president of Global Healthcare at Ecolab Inc., headquartered in St. Paul, Minn. She joined the company in 2003 as senior vice president of research development and engineering and chief technical officer, and assumed her current position in 2008. Prior to joining Ecolab, Nestegard was a business director at 3M Company.
 
She was nominated to fill the seat created by the retirement of Luella G. Goldberg. Goldberg and Gary J. Ray, who became directors in 1993 and 1990, respectively, will retire effective after the Board of Director meeting on Nov. 23, 2009.
 
"We want to thank Luella and Gary for their invaluable leadership and insight," Ettinger said. "We wish them the best in their retirements."
 
Also effective Nov. 23, John G. Turner will replace Goldberg as lead director of the board.
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, and in each of the past ten years, Hormel Foods was named one of "The 400 Best Big Companies in America" by Forbes magazine. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit http://www.hormelfoods.com.


