FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20100907080041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
 
 
 
 
Section 8  OTHER EVENTS
 
Item 8.01
Other Events
 
On September 6, 2010, MegaMex Foods LLC, a joint venture between Hormel Foods Corporation and Herdez Del Fuerte, S.A. de C.V., issued a press release announcing a definitive agreement to acquire 100 percent of the stock of Don Miguel Foods Corp. from
TSG4 L.P., a private equity fund sponsored by TSG Consumer Partners LLC,
and private investors.  A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)    Exhibits furnished pursuant to Item 8.01
 
99       Press release issued September 6, 2010
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
CHINO, Calif.
(September 6, 2010)  MegaMex Foods LLC, a joint venture between Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) and Herdez Del Fuerte, S.A. de C.V., today announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 100 percent of the stock of Don Miguel Foods Corp. from
TSG4 L.P., a private equity fund sponsored by TSG Consumer Partners LLC,
and private investors. The transaction is expected to close in October 2010; terms were not disclosed.
 
Don Miguel Foods is a leading provider of branded frozen and fresh authentic Mexican flavored appetizers, snacks and handheld items. The portfolio includes mini tacos, flautas, taquitos, empanadas, burritos and roller grill items.
 
"Growth through the strategic acquisition of Don Miguel Foods is an important step toward making us stronger for the future," said Enrique Hernndez-Pons Torres, chairman of the board of MegaMex Foods. "Adding these leading product categories to our portfolio brings us closer to achieving our goal of being a one-stop-shop for Mexican foods for our customers."
 
"Don Miguel Foods will add new competencies that will allow us to continue expanding our presence in the nation's leading convenience stores, club stores and supermarkets," said Luis G. Marconi, managing director at MegaMex Foods.
 
Don Miguel Foods has a manufacturing and distribution center located in the Dallas, Texas, area.
 
MegaMex Foods was advised in this transaction by J.H. Chapman Group, L.L.C.
 
 
Page 2 
MegaMex Foods Expands Mexican Foods Portfolio
 
About Hormel Foods
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring quality, value-added brands to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and was named one of "The 100 Most Trustworthy Companies" by Forbes in 2010. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit http://www.hormelfoods.com.
 
About Herdez Del Fuerte
Herdez Del Fuerte, based in Mexico City, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and beverages in Mexico and the United States. The company has a strong product portfolio mainly based in tomato, fruit, vegetable, jalapeo, mole sauce, coffee and tuna products marketed under highly recognized and valued brands, including HERDEZ, DEL FUERTE, DOA MARA, LA VICTORIA, NAIR, EMBASA, BFALO, LA GLORIA, CARLOTA and BLASN, among others. Herdez Del Fuerte also markets and distributes products from affiliated companies such as Hormel Alimentos, McCormick de Mxico and Barilla Mxico. To fulfill its retail and foodservice customer and consumer needs, Herdez Del Fuerte operates seven manufacturing facilities and seven distribution centers across Mexico with more than 6,000 employees. Herdez Del Fuerte is a joint venture between Grupo Herdez, S.A.B. de C.V., and Grupo KUO, S.A.B. de C.V. For more information, visit http://www.grupoherdez.com.mx and http://www.kuo.com.mx.
 


