FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20110222090738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 22, 2011, the Company issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended January 30, 2011.  A copy of the earnings release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
AUSTIN, Minn
. (February 22, 2011)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today reported its performance for the fiscal year 2011 first quarter.
 
All comparisons are to the first quarter of fiscal 2010. All per share results reported here are on a two-for-one stock split adjusted basis.
 
HIGHLIGHTS
 
First Quarter
        
Diluted EPS of $.55, up 34 percent from $.41 per share
        
Segment operating profit up 33 percent
        
Dollar sales of $1.9 billion up 11 percent
        
Volume up 4 percent
        
Jennie-O Turkey Store operating profit up 122 percent; volume up 5 percent; dollar sales up 14 percent
        
Refrigerated Foods operating profit up 37 percent; volume up 2 percent; dollar sales up 13 percent
        
Grocery Products operating profit down 10 percent; volume up 5 percent; dollar sales up 6 percent
        
Specialty Foods operating profit down 12 percent; volume up 7 percent; dollar sales up 2 percent
        
All Other operating profit up 29 percent; volume up 8 percent; dollar sales up 17 percent
 
The company reported fiscal 2011 first quarter net earnings of $148.8 million, up 34 percent from earnings of $111.2 million a year earlier. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.55 this year compared to $.41 per share last year. Sales totaled $1.92 billion, which was up 11 percent from fiscal 2010.
 
COMMENTARY
 
"We are pleased to report double-digit increases in both sales and earnings for the quarter. All five segments generated year-over-year sales growth. E
arnings growth was led by excellent performance by our Jennie-O Turkey Store and Refrigerated Foods segments," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.
 
"Our Jennie-O Turkey Store segment had an outstanding quarter, driven by favorable commodity meat margins and improved efficiencies across the entire supply chain and operations. It also experienced improved sales of value-added products. Our Refrigerated Foods segment had a strong quarter, as well, benefitting from continued high pork operating margins. We were pleased by the performance of our international business in the All Other segment, too.  Both our Grocery Products and Specialty Foods segments were pressured by higher commodity input costs during the quarter," remarked Ettinger.
SEGMENT OPERATING SUMMARIES  FIRST QUARTER
 
Grocery Products (14% of Net Sales, 20% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
The Grocery Products segment operating profit declined 10 percent, due primarily to higher raw material costs.  Sales grew 6 percent, led by higher sales of the
SPAM
family of products,  chili,  flavored bits and   hash, and strong sales growth of the MegaMex Foods franchise.
Hormel
Hormel
Hormel
Mary Kitchen
 
Refrigerated Foods (53% of Net Sales, 39% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
The Refrigerated Foods segment had a strong first quarter, with segment operating profit 37 percent greater than last year, as favorable spreads between hog costs and primal values benefitted the segment.  Sales grew 13 percent during the quarter, featuring higher sales of
Hormel
 party trays,  pepperoni,  refrigerated entrees,   flavored meats, and aided by the inclusion of   side dishes.
Hormel
Hormel
Hormel
Always Tender
Hormel
Country Crock
 
Jennie-O Turkey Store (19% of Net Sales, 30% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
Jennie-O Turkey Store had an outstanding quarter, with segment operating profit up 122 percent.  Better commodity meat prices and improved efficiencies in the supply chain and operations helped drive results.  Sales grew 14 percent for this segment with increased commodity meat and value-added sales, featuring increased sales of
Jennie-O Turkey Store
 turkey burgers, turkey bacon and fresh tray pack items.
 
Specialty Foods (10% of Net Sales, 7% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
Segment operating profit for Specialty Foods declined 12 percent, due primarily to higher raw material costs.  Sales grew 2 percent, as higher sales of sugar and blended products were partially offset by lower sales of contract manufacturing and sugar substitute products.
 
All Other (4% of Net Sales, 4% of Total Segment Operating Profit)
Segment operating profit for the All Other segment, which consists primarily of Hormel Foods International, increased 29 percent for the quarter, while sales grew 17 percent, led primarily by stronger exports of fresh pork and the
SPAM
family of products.
 
Net Interest and Investment Income
Net interest and investment expense was flat with a year ago.
 
General Corporate Expense
General corporate expenses were higher than last year due to expenses associated with the vesting of options under the Universal Stock Option award granted to all employees in 2007.
 
OUTLOOK
 
"Due to our strong results in the first quarter, we are raising our full year guidance range from $1.55 to $1.60 per share to $1.62 to $1.68 per share. We expect to see higher input costs the balance of the year, and our team will continue to tackle the challenge of offsetting these added costs with pricing and efficiency gains. Nevertheless, we believe our strong portfolio of branded products and our balanced model should allow us to build upon the momentum of our excellent start," concluded Ettinger.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
Effective February 15, 2011, the Company paid its 330
th
 consecutive quarterly dividend, at the annual rate of $.51.
 
WEBCAST
 
The Company's results will be discussed during its presentation at the CAGNY Conference via webcast at 1:45 p.m. EST on Tuesday, February 22, 2011. Access is available at http://www.hormelfoods.com. The Webcast replay will be available at 3:45 p.m. EST, Tuesday, February 22, 2011, and archived for one year.
 
ABOUT HORMEL FOODS CORPORATION
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring branded, value-added products to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes, Global 1000 Sustainable Performance Leaders and was named one of "The 100 Most Trustworthy Companies" by Forbes in 2010. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit
http://www.hormelfood s.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains forward-looking information based on management's current views and assumptions. Actual events may differ materially. Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors that appear on pages 25-29 in the company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended Oct. 31, 2010, which can be accessed at www.hormelfoods.com under "Investors-SEC Filings."
 
"Country Crock" is a registered trademark of the Unilever Group of Companies and is used under license. All rights reserved.
 
Segment Data
 
Fiscal 2011 First Quarter Segment Operating Results (in thousands)
 
* Shares and per share figures have been restated to give effect to the two-for-one stock split, which was approved by shareholders at the Company's Annual Meeting on January 31, 2011.


