FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20110927080630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 27, 2011, Hormel Foods Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the election of the following three new members to its Board of Directors, effective September 24, 2011.  These members were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of current Board members Ronald D. Pearson, Hugh C. Smith, M.D., and John G. Turner.  Mr. Pearson will retire effective September 30, 2011, and Dr. Smith and Mr. Turner will retire effective November 21, 2011.
 
Glenn S. Forbes, M.D., age 63, is the Medical Director for initiatives in diversified business activities for medical imaging services at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.  Stephen M. Lacy, age 57, is Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Meredith Corporation, headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa.  Michael J. Mendes, age 48, is Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Foods, Inc., headquartered in San Francisco, California.
 
Dr. Forbes will join the Governance Committee, Mr. Lacy will join the Audit Committee, and Mr. Mendes will join the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.
 
None of the elected members are party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, and the Company has not entered into any material contracts or arrangements in connection with their elections to the Board of Directors. All elected members will participate in the Hormel Foods Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
The press release announcing these elections and retirements is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
AUSTIN, Minn.,
(Sept. 27, 2011)  Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE: HRL) today announced Glenn S. Forbes, M.D., Stephen M. Lacy and Michael J. Mendes were elected to the Hormel Foods Board of Directors during its Sept. 24 meeting.
 
"We welcome Glenn, Stephen and Michael to the board and look forward to the insight they will contribute from their respective industries to help us continue growing the company," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer at Hormel Foods.
 
Forbes, 63, is the medical director for initiatives in diversified business activities for medical imaging services at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He joined the staff of Mayo Clinic in 1977 and has served as a member of the board of governors, board of trustees and as chair of the Rochester executive board. In addition, he has supported Mayo Clinic as medical director in state government affairs and public relations.
 
Lacy, 57, is chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer at Meredith Corporation, which is headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa. He joined the company in 1998 as chief financial officer and assumed his current position in 2010. Prior to joining Meredith Corporation, Lacy held positions at Johnson & Higgins, Commtron Corporation and Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
 
Mendes, 48, is chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer at Diamond Foods Inc., which is headquartered in San Francisco, Calif. He serves on the board of directors for the Grocery Manufacturers Association, and formerly served on the advisory board for The Wine Group. Mendes joined the company in 1991 as vice president of international sales and marketing and assumed his current position in 1997. Prior to joining Diamond Foods Inc., he held positions at Dole Food Company Inc. and with the State of California.
 
Forbes, Lacy and Mendes were nominated to fill the seats created by the retirements of Ronald D. Pearson, Hugh C. Smith, M.D. and John G. Turner. Pearson, who became a director in 2007, will retire effective Sept. 30, 2011. Smith and Turner, who became directors in 2006 and 2000, respectively, will retire effective Nov. 21, 2011.
"We want to thank Ron, Hugh and John for their dedicated leadership and strategic insight, which has helped advance our business," Ettinger said. "We wish them the best in their retirements."
 
Also effective Nov. 21, John L. Morrison will replace Turner as lead director of the board.
 
About Hormel Foods
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring branded, value-added products to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes, Global 1000 Sustainable Performance Leaders and was named one of "The 100 Most Trustworthy Companies" by Forbes in 2010. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit http://www.hormelfoods.com.


