FILE:HRL/HRL-8K-20120925082540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]
     
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
[  ]
     
 
Section 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
Item 5.02 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 25, 2012, Hormel Foods Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing the election of Christopher J. Policinski to its Board of Directors, effective September 22, 2012.
 
Mr. Policinski is currently the President and Chief Executive Officer of Land O' Lakes, Inc., headquartered in Arden Hills, MN.  Mr. Policinski will join the Audit and Contingency Committees of the Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Policinski is not a party to any transaction with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, and the Company has not entered into any material contracts or arrangements in connection with his election to the Board of Directors.  He will participate in the Hormel Foods Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
The press release announcing this election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Section 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)  Exhibits pursuant to Item 5.02
 
Press release, dated September 25, 2012, announcing the election of Christopher J. Policinski to the Company's Board of Directors
99.1
                   
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
AUSTIN, Minn.
(Sept. 25, 2012) 
Hormel Foods Corporation (NYSE:HRL),today announced Christopher J. Policinski, president and chief executive officer (CEO) at Land O'Lakes, Inc., as the newest member of the Hormel Foods Board of Directors effective Sept. 22.
 
"We welcome Chris to the board and look forward to his contributions to the growth and development of our employees, consistent returns to shareholders, and to the long-term success of Hormel Foods," said Jeffrey M. Ettinger, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer at Hormel Foods.
 
Policinski has more than 30 years of experience in the food industry. Prior to joining Land O'Lakes, he held leadership positions with Kraft General Foods, Bristol Meyers Squibb and the Pillsbury Co. He joined Land O'Lakes in 1997 as vice president of strategy and business development. Policinski later became chief operating officer of the Land O'Lakes dairy foods business unit and was appointed president and CEO in 2005.
 
Policinski is also a member of the board of directors of several industry associations, including the Grocery Manufacturers Association, the National Milk Producers Federation and the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, as well as the United States Global Leadership Campaign, Xcel Energy, Inc., and local community boards, including the Greater Twin Cities United Way.
 
About Hormel Foods
 
Hormel Foods Corporation, based in Austin, Minn., is a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer-branded food and meat products, many of which are among the best known and trusted in the food industry. The company leverages its extensive expertise, innovation and high competencies in pork and turkey processing and marketing to bring branded, value-added products to the global marketplace. The company is a member of the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index, S&P Dividend Aristocrats for 2012, Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes, Global 1000 Sustainable Performance Leaders and was again named one of "The 100 Best Corporate Citizens" by Corporate Responsibility Magazine for the fourth year in a row. The company enjoys a strong reputation among consumers, retail grocers, foodservice and industrial customers for products highly regarded for quality, taste, nutrition, convenience and value. For more information, visit .
http://www.hormelfoods.com


