FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20071211171202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
and
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On December 5, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Denbury Resources Inc. (the "Company") voted to amend four of the Company's benefit plans ("Plans"). The following three Plans were amended to modify the change of control provisions with respect to changes in the composition of the Board: the 2004 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended, the Stock Option Plan, as amended, effective August 9, 1995, and the Severance Protection Plan dated December 6, 2000. The Board determined to amend the Plans in this way to better reflect the intent of the change of control provisions to protect Plan participants in the event of a takeover of the Company, but not to cover ordinary and orderly changes in the composition of the Board in due course. The amendments reflect this intent. As now amended, the term "Change of Control" or "Change in Control," as applicable, in each of the above-mentioned Plans means:
"Continuing Directors" no longer constitute a majority of the Board; the term "Continuing Director" means any individual who has served in such capacity for one year or more, together with any new directors whose election by such Board or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of a majority of the Directors of the Company then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such one-year period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved.
On December 5, 2007, the Board also voted to amend the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan effective February 1, 1996, to delete all references to Canada and the Toronto Stock Exchange that are no longer applicable to the Company and to make other conforming changes.
A copy of each Plan, as amended and restated, is attached hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
     . The purpose of this Plan is to advance the interests of Denbury Resources Inc., a Delaware Corporation, and increase shareholder value by providing additional incentives to attract, retain and motivate those qualified and competent employees and Directors, upon whose efforts and judgment its success is largely dependent.
1. Purpose
     . As used herein, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
2. Definitions
     shall mean the person(s) designated by the Committee to carry out nondiscretionary administrative duties with respect to the Plan and Awards.
(a) "Administrator"
     "" shall relate to the grant of an Award in the form of a SAR or Limited SAR, and shall mean the value assigned to the Award's Reserved Shares which will form the basis for calculating the Spread on the date of exercise of the SAR or Limited SAR, which assigned value shall be the Fair Market Value of such Reserved Shares on the Date of Grant.
(b) 
Agreed Price
     means the requirements relating to the administration of stock option plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, and the Code; and the similar laws of any foreign country or jurisdiction where Options are, or will be, granted.
(c) "Applicable Laws"
     shall mean either an Option, a SAR, a Restricted Share Award, or a Performance Award, except that where it shall be appropriate to identify the specific type of Award, reference shall be made to the specific type of Award; and provided, further, that references to Award shall be deemed to be references to the written agreement evidencing such Award, and provided, finally, without limitation, that unless expressly provided to the contrary in the terms of the Award, in the event of a conflict between the terms of the Plan and the terms of an Award, the terms of the Plan are controlling.
(d) "Award"
     shall mean the Board of Directors of the Parent.
(e) "Board"
      shall mean a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which the Holder of an Option shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions to (a) an Administrator designated brokerage firm () to effect the immediate sale of the Reserved Shares and remit to the Administrator, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Option Price plus all applicable Federal, state and local income and employment taxes required to be withheld by the Company, and (b) the Administrator to deliver the certificates for the Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.
(f) "Broker Assisted Exercise"
"Broker"
 
     shall mean either (i) a final, nonappealable conviction of a Holder for commission of a felony involving moral turpitude, or (ii) Holder's willful gross misconduct that causes material economic harm to the Company or that brings substantial discredit to the Company's reputation.
(g) "Cause"
     shall mean any one of the following:
(h) "Change in Control"
     (1) "Continuing Directors" no longer constitute a majority of the Board; the term "Continuing Director" means any individual who has served in such capacity for one year or more, together with any new directors whose election by such Board or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of a majority of the Directors of the Company then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such one-year period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved;
     (2) after the Effective Date, any person or group of persons acting together as an entity (other than the Texas Pacific Group and its Affiliates) become (i) the beneficial owners (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) directly or indirectly, of shares of common stock representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled generally to vote for the election of the Company's Directors, and (ii) the largest beneficial owner directly or indirectly of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled generally to vote for the election of the Company's Directors;
     (3) the merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party if (i) the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of such merger or consolidation have beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of less than forty percent (40%) of the combined voting power to vote for the election of directors of the surviving corporation or other entity following the effective date of such merger or consolidation; or (ii) fifty percent (50%) or more of the individuals constituting the members the Investment Committee are terminated due to the Change in Control; or
     (4) the sale of all or substantially all, of the assets of the Company or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     (5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2(h), if a Holder's Separation is for a reason other than for Cause, and occurs not more than 90 days prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, for purposes of Awards, such termination shall be deemed to have occurred immediately following a Change in Control.
 
     (6) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, under no circumstances will a change in the constitution of the board of directors of any Subsidiary, a change in the beneficial ownership of any Subsidiary, the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary with any other entity, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of any Subsidiary or the liquidation or dissolution of any Subsidiary constitute a "Change in Control" under this Plan.
     shall mean the higher of (i) the highest price per Share paid in any transaction reported on the NYSE or such other exchange or market as is the principal trading market for the Common Stock, or (ii) the highest price per share paid in any bona fide transaction related to a Change in Control, at any time during the 60 day period immediately preceding such occurrence; with such occurrence date to be determined by the Committee.
(i) "Change in Control Price"
     shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended.
(j) "Code"
     shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board, provided, further, that in granting Performance Awards, Committee shall refer to only those members of the Compensation Committee who are "Outside Directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
(k) "Committee"
     shall mean the common stock, $.001 par value, of the Parent.
(l) "Common Stock"
     shall mean, individually and collectively, the Parent and the Subsidiaries, except that when it shall be appropriate to refer only to Denbury Resources Inc., the reference will be to "Parent".
(m) "Company"
     shall mean the date on which the Committee takes formal action to grant an Award, provided that it is followed, as soon as reasonably practicable, by written notice to the Eligible Person receiving the Award.
(n) "Date of Grant"
     shall mean a member of the Board.
(o) "Director"
     shall mean a Holder's present incapacity resulting from an injury or illness (either mental or physical) which, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrator based on such medical evidence as it deems necessary, will result in death or can be expected to continue for a period of at least twelve (12) months and will prevent the Holder from performing the normal services required of the Holder by the Company; provided, however, that such disability did not result, in whole or in part: (i) from chronic alcoholism; (ii) from addiction to narcotics; (ii) from a felonious undertaking; or (iv) from an intentional self-inflicted wound.
(p) "Disability"
 
     shall mean May 12, 2004.
(q) "Effective Date"
     shall mean those persons or entities, as applicable, who are Employees, or non-employee Directors.
(r) "Eligible Person(s)"
     "shall mean each person whose customary work schedule is a minimum of thirty (30) hours per week, and who is designated as an employee on the books of the Company.
(s) 
Employee(s)"
     per Share on the date of reference shall be the Closing Price on such date, provided, further, that if the actual transaction involving the Shares occurs at a time when the New York Stock Exchange is closed for regular trading, then it shall be the most recent Closing Price; provided, further, that "Closing Price" means the closing price of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange as reported in any newspaper of general circulation.
(t) "Fair Market Value"
      shall mean, at each time of reference, each person with respect to whom an Award is in effect; provided, further, that following the death of a Holder, it shall refer to the person who succeeds to the rights of such Holder.
(u) "Holder"
     "" shall mean an Option that is an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.
(v) 
Incentive Stock Option
     "" shall mean the committee of that name established by the Board, who shall be solely responsible for selecting its members, and whose members on the Effective Date are Messrs. Gareth Roberts, Ronald T. Evans, Mark Worthey and Phil Rykhoek.
(w) 
Investment Committee
     shall mean a limited stock appreciation right as defined in hereof.
(x) "Limited SAR"
Section 18
     shall mean an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(y) "Non-Qualified Stock Option"
     (when capitalized) shall mean the grant of the right to purchase Reserved Shares through the payment of the Option Price and taking the form of either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option; except that, where it shall be appropriate to identify a specific type of Option, reference shall be made to the specific type of Option; provided, further, without limitation, that a single Option may include both Incentive Stock Option and Non-Qualified Stock Option provisions.
(z) "Option"
     shall mean the price per Reserved Share which is required to be paid by the Holder in order to exercise his or her right to acquire the Reserved Share under the terms of the Option.
(aa) "Option Price"
 
     shall mean Denbury Resources Inc.
(bb) "Parent"
     shall mean the award which is granted contingent upon the attainment of the performance objectives during the Performance Period, all as described more fully in .
(cc) "Performance Award"
Section 17
     shall mean one or more of the following: (i) earnings per share, (ii) return on average common equity, (iii) pre-tax income, (iv) pre-tax operating income, (v) net revenue, (vi) net income, (vii) profits before taxes, (viii) book value per share, (ix) changes in amounts of oil and gas reserves, (x) changes in production rates, (xi) net asset value, (xii) net asset value per share, (xiii) sales, (xiv) finding costs, or (xv) operating cost reductions, but shall not include remaining in the employ of the Company for a specified period of time.
(dd) "Performance Measures"
     shall mean the period described in with respect to which the performance objectives relate.
(ee) "Performance Period"
Section 17
     shall mean this 2004 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan for Denbury Resources Inc.
(ff) "Plan"
     shall mean the calendar year.
(gg) "Plan Year"
     shall mean, at each time of reference, the total number of Shares described in with respect to which the Committee may grant an Award, all of which Reserved Shares shall be held in the Parent's treasury or shall be made available from the Parent's authorized and unissued Shares.
(hh) "Reserved Shares"
Section 3
     and similar shall mean the restrictions applicable to Reserved Shares subject to an Award which constitute "a substantial risk of forfeiture" of such Reserved Shares within the meaning of Section 83(a)(1) of the Code.
(ii) "Restriction(s)" "Restricted"
     shall mean the period during which Restricted Shares are subject to Restrictions.
(jj) "Restricted Period"
     shall mean the Reserved Shares granted to an Eligible Person which are subject to Restrictions; provided, further, that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine that the Restrictions which otherwise would have been imposed have been fully satisfied on the Date of Grant by reason of prior service and/or other
(kk) "Restricted Shares"
 
considerations, and thus provide that such Restricted Shares shall be fully Vested on the Date of Grant.
     shall mean the award of Restricted Shares.
(ll) "Restricted Share Award"
     shall mean any amounts, whether Shares, cash or other property (other than regular cash dividends) paid or distributed by the Parent with respect to Restricted Shares during a Restricted Period.
(mm) "Restricted Share Distributions"
     shall mean the first birthday of a Holder on which that Holder has attained the later of (i) his 60th birthday, and (ii) the birthday on which that Holder attains an age equal to (x) 65 minus (y) the number which results from multiplying (A) fifty percent (50%) times (B) that Holder's full years of service as an Employee on such birthday, with such product of (A) and (B) rounded down to the nearest whole number before being deducted from 65. For example only, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Holder who has completed 70 months of service (i.e., 5 full years of service) as an Employee on his 62nd birthday will not have attained his Retirement Vesting Date, whereas a Holder who has completed 72 months of service (i.e., 6 full years of service) as an Employee on his 62nd birthday will have attained his Retirement Vesting Date.
(nn) "Retirement Vesting Date"
     shall mean a stock appreciation right as defined in hereof.
(oo) "SAR"
Section 18
     shall mean a share or shares of Common Stock.
(pp) "Share(s)"
     shall mean the difference between the Option Price, or the Agreed Price, as the case may be, of the Share(s) on the date of the Award, and the Fair Market Value of such Share(s) on the date of reference.
(qq) "Spread"
     "" shall mean the date on which a Holder ceases to have an employment relationship with the Company for any reason, including death or Disability; and provided, further, without limitation, such employment relationship will cease, in the case of a non-Employee Director, upon his or her ceasing to be a Director; provided, however, that a Separation will not be considered to have occurred while an Employee is on sick leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence approved by the Company, if the period of such leave does not exceed 90 days, or, if longer, so long as the Employee's right to redeployment with the Company is guaranteed either by statute or by contract.
(rr) 
Separation
     shall mean, where the Award is an Incentive Stock Option, a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, and on the case of any other Award, shall mean any entity which would be a subsidiary corporation as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code if it were a corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Genesis Energy, Inc. shall not be considered a Subsidiary for purposes of this Plan.
(ss) "Subsidiary"
 
     shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(tt) "1933 Act"
     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(uu) "1934 Act"
     and similar terms shall mean the number of Option Shares which have become nonforfeitable and the number of Restricted Shares on which the Restrictions have lapsed; provided, further, and without limitation, that the lapse of Restrictions based on the attainment of performance objectives is also a Vesting event.
(vv) "Vested"
     "shall mean a person who owns directly (or indirectly through attribution under Section 425(d) of the Code) at the Date of Grant of an Incentive Stock Option, stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock (as defined in Section 424 of the Code) of the Parent on the Date of Grant.
(ww) 
10% Person"
     
3. Award of Reserved Shares.
     As of the Effective Date (as amended), 7,000,000 Shares shall automatically, and without further action, become Reserved Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not more than 3,350,000 Reserved Shares may be issued under the Plan as a result of the Vesting of Restricted Stock or Performance Awards. To the extent any Award shall terminate, expire or be canceled, the Reserved Shares subject to such Award (or with respect to which the Award is measured), shall remain Reserved Shares. Where an Award is settled on a basis other than the issuance of Reserved Shares, the Reserved Shares which measured the amount of such Award settlement shall be canceled and no longer considered Reserved Shares.
(a) 
     Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, no person whose compensation may be subject to the limitations on deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be eligible for a grant during a single calendar year of an Award with respect to, or measured by, more than 500,000 Reserved Shares. The limitation under this Section 3(b) shall be construed so as to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
(b) 
     
4. Conditions for Grant of Awards.
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions hereof which deal specifically with each form of Award, Awards shall only be granted to such one or more Eligible Persons as shall be selected by the Committee.
(a) 
     In granting Awards, the Committee shall take into consideration the contribution the Eligible Person has made or may be reasonably expected to make to the success of the Company and such other factors as the Committee shall determine. The Committee shall also have the authority to consult with and receive recommendations from officers and other personnel of the Company with regard to these matters. The Committee may from time to time in granting Awards under the Plan prescribe such terms and conditions concerning such Awards as it deems appropriate, including, without limitation,
(b)
 
relating an Award to achievement of specific goals established by the Committee or to the continued employment of the Eligible Person for a specified period of time, provided that such terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan.
     Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees, and all other Awards may be granted to any Eligible Person.
(c) 
     The Plan shall not confer upon any Holder any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company, or any right to provide services to the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the Company's right to terminate his or her employment at any time.
(d) 
     The Awards granted to Eligible Persons shall be in addition to regular salaries, pension, life insurance or other benefits (if any) related to their service to the Company, and nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the ability of the Company to enter into any other compensation arrangements with any Eligible Person.
(e) 
     The Administrator shall determine in each case whether periods of military or government service shall constitute a continuation of employment or service for the purposes of this Plan or any Award.
(f) 
     Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, each Award which in whole or in part involves the issuance of Reserved Shares may provide for the issuance of such Reserved Shares for consideration consisting of cash or cash equivalents, or such other consideration as the Committee may determine, including (without limitation) as compensation for past services rendered.
(g) 
     The Committee may delegate in writing to the Administrator the authority to grant Awards to new Employees of the Company, provided that such authority contains limits on the maximum amount or number of Awards (on both an individual basis and, if the Committee so designates, on an aggregate basis) that the Administrator may grant under such authority. Such authority shall also designate the terms and conditions for these grants.
(h) 
     
5. Grant of Options.
     The Committee may grant Options to Eligible Persons from time to time, alone, in addition to, or in tandem with, other Awards granted under the Plan. An Option granted hereunder shall be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option, and shall clearly state whether it is (in whole or in part) an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option; provided, further, that failure of an Option designated as an Incentive Stock Option to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option will not affect its validity, and the portion which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
(a) 
     If both Incentive Stock Options and Non-Qualified Stock Options are granted to a Holder, the right to exercise, to the full extent thereof, Options of either type shall not be
(b)
 
contingent in whole or in part upon the exercise of, or failure to exercise, Options of the other type.
     The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the Reserved Shares with respect to which any Incentive Stock Option is exercisable for the first time by a Holder during any calendar year under the Plan and all such plans of the Company (as defined in Section 425 of the Code) shall not exceed $100,000; provided, further, without limitation, that any portion of an Option designated as an Incentive Stock Option which exceeds such $100,000 limit will, notwithstanding such designation, be a validly granted Non-Qualified Stock Option.
(c) 
     The Committee may at any time offer to buy out for a payment in cash, an Option previously granted, based on such terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish and as communicated to the Holder by the Administrator at the time that such offer is made.
(d) 
     
6. Option Price.
     The Option Price shall be any price determined by the Committee which is not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant; provided, however, that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a 10% Person the Option Price shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant. The Administrator shall determine the Fair Market Value per Share.
(a) 
     Unless further limited by the Committee in any Option, the Option Price may be paid in cash, by certified or cashier's check, by wire transfer, by money order, through a Broker Assisted Exercise, with Shares (but with Shares only if expressly permitted by the terms of the Option and only with Shares owned by the Holder for at least 6 months prior to the exercise date), or by a combination of the above; provided, however, that the Administrator may accept a personal check in full or partial payment. If the Option Price is permitted to be, and is, paid in whole or in part with Shares, the value of the Shares surrendered shall be the Shares' Fair Market Value on the date delivered to the Administrator.
(b) 
     .
7. Exercise of Options
An Option shall be deemed exercised when (i) the Administrator has received written notice of such exercise in accordance with the terms of the Option, and (ii) full payment of the aggregate Option Price plus required withholding tax amounts, if any, described in Section 15, of the Reserved Shares as to which the Option is exercised has been made. Separate stock certificates shall be issued by the Parent for any Reserved Shares acquired as a result of exercising an Incentive Stock Option and a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
 
     
8. Vesting of Options.
     Without limitation, each Option shall Vest in whole or in part, and shall expire, according to the terms of the Option. Unless otherwise expressly provided in an Option, each Option which is not an Annual Option as described in below, shall Vest, and Reserved Shares subject to such Option shall become Vested Option Shares, on the dates set forth in the following Vesting Schedule:
(a) 
Section 
8(b)
     (1) 25% of the Reserved Shares on the first anniversary of the Date of Grant;
     (2) 25% of the Reserved Shares on the second anniversary of the Date of Grant;
     (3) 25% of the Reserved Shares on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant; and
     (4) 25% of the Reserved Shares on the fourth anniversary of the Date of Grant.
     Except as otherwise expressly provided in such Option, an Option which is expressly designated as an "Annual" Option shall not Vest, and shall remain 100% forfeitable, until the fourth (4) anniversary of its Date of Grant, and on such fourth (4) anniversary of its Date of Grant such Annual Option shall become 100% Vested, and all Reserved Shares subject to such Annual Option shall become Vested Option Shares.
(b) 
th
th
     The Committee, in its sole discretion, may accelerate the date on which all or any portion of an otherwise unvested Option shall Vest or restrictions on Restricted Shares will lapse.
(c) 
     
9. Termination of Option Period.
     Unless the terms of an Option expressly provide for a different date of termination, the unexercised portion of an Option shall automatically and without notice terminate and become null and void at the time of the earliest to occur of the following:
(a) 
     (1) on the 90th day following Holder's Separation for any reason except death, Disability or for Cause; or
     (2) immediately upon Separation as a result, in whole or in material part, of a discharge for Cause; or
     (3) on the first anniversary of a Separation by reason of death or Disability;
 
     (4) in the case of a 10% Person, on the fifth (5 ) anniversary of the Date of Grant; or
th
     (5) on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Date of Grant.
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Parent, or in the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the proposed merger of the Parent with or into another corporation (collectively, the "Transaction"), unless otherwise expressly provided (by express reference to this ) in the terms of an Option, after the public announcement of the Transaction, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, direct the Administrator to deliver a written notice ("") to any Holder of an Option, canceling the unexercised Vested portion (including the portion which becomes Vested by reason of acceleration), if any, of such Option, effective on the date specified in the Cancellation Notice ("). Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Cancellation Date may not be earlier than the last to occur of (i) the 15 day following delivery of the Cancellation Notice, and (ii) the 60 day prior to the proposed date for the consummation of the Transaction ("Proposed Date"). Without limitation, the Cancellation Notice will provide that, unless the Holder elects in writing to waive, in whole or in part, a Conditional Exercise, that the exercise of the Option will be a Conditional Exercise. A "Conditional Exercise" shall mean that in the event the Transaction does not occur within 180 days of the Proposed Date, the exercising Holder shall be refunded any amounts paid to exercise such Holder's Option, such Option will be reissued, and the purported exercise of such Option shall be null and void ab intitio.
(b) 
Section 9(b)
Cancellation Notice
Cancellation Date"
th
th
     
10. Acceleration.
     Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Award, in the event the Holder's Separation is by reason of the Holder's death, or Disability, all Awards granted to the Holder shall become fully exercisable, Vested, or the Restricted Period shall terminate, as the case may be (hereafter, in this such Award shall be "accelerated").
(a) 
Section 10,
     Unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award, in the event of a Change in Control (i) all Awards shall be accelerated, and (ii) in the sole discretion of the Committee, the value of some or all Awards may be cashed out on the basis of the Change in Control Price, at any time during the 60 day period immediately preceding any bona fide transaction related to a Change in Control; provided, further, that if a date prior to such occurrence is selected for a cash out, any subsequent increase in the Change in Control Price will be paid to each Holder on the date of such occurrence, or as soon thereafter as reasonably possible.
(b) 
     
11. Adjustment of Reserved Shares.
     If at any time while the Plan is in effect or Awards with respect to Reserved Shares are outstanding, there shall be any increase or decrease in the number of issued and outstanding Shares through the declaration of a stock dividend or through any
(a)
 
recapitalization resulting in a stock split-up, combination or exchange of Shares, then and in such event:
     (i) appropriate adjustment shall be made in the maximum number of Reserved Shares which may be granted under and equitably in the Reserved Shares which are then subject to each Award, so that the same proportion of the Parent's issued and outstanding Common Stock shall continue to be subject to grant under , and to such Award, and
Section 3,
Section 3
     (ii) in addition, and without limitation, in the case of each Award (including, without limitation, Options) which requires the payment of consideration by the Holder in order to acquire Reserved Shares, an appropriate equitable adjustment shall be made in the consideration (including, without limitation the Option Price) required to be paid to acquire the each Reserved Share, so that (i) the aggregate consideration to acquire all of the Reserved Shares subject to the Award remains the same and, (ii) so far as possible, (and without disqualifying an Incentive Stock Option) the relative cost of acquiring each Reserved Share subject to such Award remains the same.
All such determinations shall be made by the Board in its sole discretion.
     The Committee may change, or may direct the Administrator to change, the terms of Options outstanding under this Plan, with respect to the Option Price or the number of Reserved Shares subject to the Options, or both, when, in the Committee's judgment, such adjustments become appropriate by reason of a corporate transaction (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.425-1(a)(1)(ii)); provided, however, that if by reason of such corporate transaction an Incentive Stock Option is assumed or a new Incentive Stock Option is substituted therefor, the Committeeor at the direction of the Committee, the Administrator, may only change the terms of such Incentive Stock Option such that (i) the excess of the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the substituted Incentive Stock Option immediately after the substitution or assumption, over the aggregate Option Price of such Shares at such time, is not more than the excess of the aggregate Fair Market Value of all Reserved Shares subject to the Incentive Stock Option immediately before such substitution or assumption over the aggregate Option Price of such Reserved Shares at such time, and (ii) the substituted Incentive Stock Option, or the assumption of the original Incentive Stock Option does not give the Holder additional benefits which such Holder did not have under the original Incentive Stock Option. Without limiting the generality of any other provisions hereof, including, without limitation, , except to the minimum extent, if any, required by Section 424(a) of the Code with respect to Incentive Stock Options, no change made under the authority of this in the terms of an Option shall alter such Option's material provisions in a way that makes such Option less valuable to its Holder.
(b) 
,
Section 21
Section 
11(b)
     Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the issuance by the Parent of shares of its capital stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of capital stock of any class, either in connection with direct sale for adequate consideration, or upon the
(c)
 
exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Parent convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, Reserved Shares subject to Awards granted under the Plan.
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the existence of outstanding Awards with respect to Reserved Shares granted under the Plan shall not affect in any manner the right or power of the Parent to make, authorize or consummate (1) any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Parent's capital structure or its business; (2) any merger or consolidation of the Parent; (3) any issue by the Parent of debt securities, or preferred or preference stock which would rank above the Reserved Shares subject to outstanding Awards; (4) the dissolution or liquidation of the Parent; (5) any sale, transfer or assignment of all or any part of the assets or business of the Company; or (6) any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
(d) 
     .  Each Award shall provide that such Award shall not be transferable by the Holder otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and that so long as an Holder lives, only such Holder or his or her guardian or legal representative shall have the right to exercise such Incentive Stock Option.
12. Transferability of Awards
     .  No Holder shall be, or have any of the rights or privileges of, the owner of Reserved Shares subject to an Award unless and until certificates representing such Common Stock shall have been issued and delivered to such Holder. As a condition of any issuance of Common Stock, the Administrator may obtain such agreements or undertakings, if any, as the Administrator may deem necessary or advisable to assure compliance with any such law or regulation or shareholder agreement including, but not limited to, a representation, warranty or agreement to be bound by any legends that are, in the opinion of the Administrator, necessary or appropriate to comply with the provisions of any securities law deemed by the Administrator to be applicable to the issuance of the Reserved Shares and which are endorsed upon the Share certificates.
13. Issuance of Reserved Shares
     Share certificates issued to the Holder receiving such Reserved Shares who is a party to any shareholders agreement, voting trust, or any similar agreement shall bear the legends contained in such agreements. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, no Reserved Shares shall be required to be issued with respect to an Award unless counsel for the Parent shall be reasonably satisfied that such issuance will be in compliance with applicable federal or state securities laws.
     In no event shall the Company be required to sell or issue Reserved Shares under any Award if the sale or issuance thereof would constitute a violation of applicable federal or state securities law or regulation or a violation of any other law or regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange. As a condition to any sale or issuance of Reserved Shares, the Company may place legends on Reserved Shares, issue
 
stop transfer orders, and require such agreements or undertakings as the Company may deem necessary or advisable to assure compliance with any such law or regulation.
     Without limitation, the Company shall use its best efforts to register the Reserved Shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission under a Form S-8.
     
14. Administration of the Plan.
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee and, except for the powers reserved to the Board in hereof, the Committee shall have all of the administrative powers under Plan. Without limitation, all members of the Committee must be independent Directors under applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
(a) 
Section 21
     The Committee, from time to time, may adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the purposes of the Plan and, without limitation, may delegate all of what, in its sole discretion, it determines to be primarily administrative or ministerial duties to the Administrator. The determinations under, and the interpretations of, any provision of the Plan or an Award by the Committee (or the Administrator in the exercise of his administrative authority) shall, in all cases, be in its sole discretion, and shall be final and conclusive.
(b) 
     Any and all determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be made either (i) by a majority vote of the members of the Committee at a meeting duly called, with at least 2 days prior notice, or (ii) without a meeting, by the written approval of all members of the Committee.
(c) 
     No member of the Committee, or the Administrator, shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by such member or by any other member of the Committee or by the Administrator with respect to the Plan, and to the extent of liabilities not otherwise insured under a policy purchased by the Company, the Company does hereby indemnify and agree to defend and save harmless any member of the Committee, and the Administrator, with respect to any liabilities asserted or incurred in connection with the exercise and performance of their powers and duties hereunder, unless such liabilities are judicially determined to have arisen out of such person's gross negligence, fraud or bad faith. Such indemnification shall include attorney's fees and all other costs and expenses reasonably incurred in defense of any action arising from such act of commission or omission. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the Company's ability to insure itself with respect to its obligations hereunder.
(d) 
     In particular, and without limitation, except for the authority granted to the Administrator under Section 4(h) to make determinations described in subsections (i), (ii), and (iii) below while carrying out the general delegation by the Committee with respect to the grant of Awards to new Employees, the Committee shall have the sole authority, consistent with the terms of the Plan:
(e)
 
     (i) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are to be granted hereunder to one or more Eligible Persons;
     (ii) to determine the number of Reserved Shares to be covered by each such Award granted hereunder;
     (iii) to determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder, and to amend or waive any such terms and conditions except to the extent, if any, expressly prohibited by the Plan;
     (iv) to determine whether and under what circumstances an Option may be settled in Restricted Shares instead of Reserved Shares;
     (v) to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards under the Plan are to be made, and operate, on a tandem basis vis-a-vis other Awards under the Plan; and
     (vi) to determine (or to delegate to the Administrator the authority to determine) whether to permit payment of tax withholding requirements in Shares.
     Without limitation, Committee (and the Administrator in carrying out his responsibilities under ) shall have the authority to adopt, alter, and repeal any or all of its rules, guidelines, and practices with respect to the Plan, and all questions of interpretation, with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be decided by the Committee (or by the Administrator in carrying out his duties under ), whose decision shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and each other affected party.
(f) 
Section 4(h)
Section 4(h)
     Without limitation, the Committee in its sole discretion may limit the authority granted, or previously granted, hereunder by the Committee to the Administrator by notifying the Administrator in writing of such change.
(g) 
     On or immediately prior to the date on which a payment is made to a Holder hereunder or, if earlier, the date on which an amount is required to be included in the income of the Holder as a result of an Award, the Holder shall be required to pay to the Company, in cash, or in Shares (but in Shares only if expressly permitted in the Award, or by written authorization of the Administrator, and then only in the minimum amount required to satisfy the minimum withholding requirements with respect to such Award), the amount (if any) which the Company reasonably determines to be necessary in order for the Company to comply with applicable federal or state tax withholding requirements, and the collection of employment taxes; provided, further, without limitation, that the may require that such payment be made in cash.
15. Tax Withholding.
Administrator
 
     
16. Restricted Share Awards.
     The Committee may grant Awards of Restricted Shares to any Eligible Person, for no cash consideration, for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, or for such other consideration as may be specified in the grant. The terms and conditions of Restricted Shares shall be specified in the Award. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine what rights, if any, the person to whom an Award of Restricted Shares is made shall have in the Restricted Shares during the Restriction Period and the Restrictions applicable to the particular Award, including whether the holder of the Restricted Shares shall have the right to vote the Restricted Shares and the extent, if any, of Holder's right to receive Restricted Share Distributions. Unless otherwise provided in the Restricted Share Award, upon the expiration of Restrictions, the Restricted Shares shall cease to be Restricted Shares.
(a) 
     The Restrictions on Restricted Shares shall lapse in whole, or in installments, over whatever Restricted Period shall be selected by the Committee.
(b) 
     Without limitations, the Committee may accelerate the date on which Restrictions lapse with respect to any Restricted Shares.
(c) 
     During the Restricted Period, the certificates representing the Restricted Shares, and any Restricted Share Distributions, shall be registered in the Holder's name and bear a restrictive legend disclosing the Restrictions, the existence of the Plan, and the existence of such Restricted Share Award. Such certificates shall be deposited by the Holder with the Company, together with stock powers or other instruments of assignment, each endorsed in blank, which will permit the transfer to the Company of all or any portion of the Restricted Shares, and any assets constituting Restricted Share Distributions, which shall be forfeited in accordance with the terms of such Restricted Share Award. Restricted Shares shall constitute issued and outstanding Common Stock for all corporate purposes and the Holder shall have all rights, powers and privileges of a holder of unrestricted Shares except those that are expressly excluded under the terms of the Restricted Share Award, and Holder will not be entitled to delivery of the stock certificates until all Restrictions shall have terminated, and the Company will retain custody of all related Restricted Share Distributions (which will be subject to the same Restrictions, terms, and conditions as the related Restricted Shares) until the conclusion of the Restricted Period with respect to the related Restricted Shares; and provided, further, that any Restricted Share Distributions shall not bear interest or be segregated into a separate account but shall remain a general asset of the Company, subject to the claims of the Company's creditors, until the conclusion of the applicable Restricted Period; and provided, finally, that any material breach of any terms of the Restricted Share Award, as reasonably determined by the Administrator, will cause a forfeiture of both Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Distributions.
(d) 
     
17. Performance Awards.
     Performance Awards during a Plan Year may be granted only to the Chief Executive Officer and the four (4) highest paid employees as of the last day of such Plan Year ("Covered Employees"), and shall in all events be specifically designated as Performance Awards. Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the Committee's authority to grant other types of Awards to Eligible Persons, including Covered Employees,
(a)
 
conditioned on the satisfaction of such criteria, including those comprising the Performance Measures, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may select.
     Without limitation, the Committee's grant of Performance Awards may, in its sole discretion, be made in Reserved Shares, or in cash, or in a combination of Reserved Shares and cash, but the cash portion of such Award may not exceed $500,000 in a Plan Year.
(b) 
     The Committee shall select the Performance Measures which will be required to be satisfied during the Performance Period in order to earn the Performance Award. Such Performance Measures, and the duration of any Performance Period, may differ with respect to each Covered Employee, or with respect to separate Performance Awards issued to the same Covered Employee. The selected Performance Measures, the Performance Period(s), and any other conditions to the Company's obligation to pay a Performance Award shall be set forth in each Performance Award on or before the first to occur of (i) the 90 day of the selected Performance Period, (ii) the first date on which more than 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and (iii) the first date, if any, on which satisfaction of the Performance Measure(s) is no longer substantially uncertain.
(c) 
th
     Performance Awards may be payable in a single payment or in installments but may not be paid in whole or in part prior to the date on which the Performance Measures are attained, except that such payment may be accelerated upon the death or Disability of the Covered Employee, or as a result of a Change in Control, it being understood that if such acceleration events occur prior to the attainment of the Performance Measures, the Performance Award will not be exempt from Section 162(m) of the Code.
(d) 
     The extent to which any applicable performance objective has been achieved shall be conclusively determined by the Committee, but may be specifically delegated to the AdministratorWithout limitation, where a Covered Employee has satisfied the Performance Measures with respect to a Performance Award, if permitted under the terms of such Performance Award, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce the maximum amount payable under such Performance Award.
(e) 
.
     
18. Stock Appreciation Rights and Limited Stock Appreciation Rights
     The Committee shall have authority to grant (i) a SAR with respect to Reserved Shares, including, without limitation, Reserved Shares covered by any Option ("Related Option"), or (ii) a Limited SAR with respect to all or some of the Reserved Shares covered by any Option, or (iii) a SAR with respect to , or as to some or all of, a Performance Award ("Related Performance Award"). A SAR or Limited SAR granted with respect to a related Option or Related Performance Award must be granted on the Date of Grant of such Related Option or Related Performance Award.
(a) 
     For the purposes of this , the following definitions shall apply:
(b)
Section 18
 
     (i) The term "Offer" shall mean any tender offer or exchange offer for thirty percent (30%) or more of the outstanding Common Stock of the Parent, other than one made by the Parent; provided that the corporation, person or other entity making the Offer acquires at least five percent (5%) of such Common Stock pursuant to such Offer.
     (ii) The term "Offer Price Per Share" shall mean the highest price per Share paid in any Offer which is in effect at any time during the period beginning on the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the date on which a Limited SAR is exercised and ending on the date on which the Limited SAR is exercised. Any securities or properties which are a part or all of the consideration paid or to be paid for Common Stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price Per Share at the higher of (1) the valuation placed on such securities or properties by the person making such Offer, or (2) the valuation placed on such securities or properties by the Administrator.
     (iii) The term "Limited SAR" shall mean a right granted under this Plan with respect to a Related Option or Related Performance Award, that shall entitle the Holder to an amount in cash equal to the Offer Spread in the event an Offer is made.
     (iv) The term "Offer Spread" shall mean, with respect to each Limited SAR, an amount equal to the product of (1) the excess of (A) the Offer Price Per Share immediately preceding the date of exercise over (B) (x) if the Limited SAR is granted in tandem with an Option, then the Option Price per Share of the Related Option, or (y) if the Limited SAR is issued with respect to a Performance Award, the Agreed Price under the Related Performance Award, multiplied by (2) the number of Reserved Shares with respect to which such Limited SAR is being exercised; provided, however that with respect to any Limited SAR granted in tandem with an Incentive Stock Option, in no event shall the Offer Spread exceed the amount permitted to be treated as the Offer Spread under applicable Treasury Regulations or other legal authority without disqualifying the Option as an Incentive Stock Option.
     (v) The term "SAR" shall mean a right granted under this Plan, including, without limitation, a right granted in tandem with an Award, that shall entitle the Holder thereof to an amount equal to the SAR Spread payable as described in .
Section 18(d)
     (vi) The term "SAR Spread" shall mean with respect to each SAR an amount equal to the product of (1) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of exercise, over (B) (x) if the SAR is granted in tandem with an Option, then the Option Price per Reserved Share of the Related Option, (y) if the SAR is granted in tandem with a Performance Award, the Agreed Price under the Related Performance Award, or (z) if the SAR is granted by itself with respect to a designated number of Reserved Shares, the Agreed Price which, without limitation, is the Fair Market Value of the Reserved Shares on the Date of Grant, in each case
 
multiplied by (2) the number of Reserved Shares with respect to which such SAR is being exercised; provided, however, without limitation, that with respect to any SAR granted in tandem with an Incentive Stock Option, in no event shall the SAR Spread exceed the amount permitted to be treated as the SAR Spread under applicable Treasury Regulations or other legal authority without disqualifying the Option as an Incentive Stock Option.
     To exercise the SAR or Limited SAR, the Holder shall:
(c) 
     (i) Give written notice thereof to the Company, specifying the SAR or Limited SAR being exercised and the number or Reserved Shares with respect to which such SAR or Limited SAR is being exercised, and
     (ii) If requested by the Company, deliver within a reasonable time the agreement evidencing the SAR or Limited SAR being exercised and, if applicable, the Related Option agreement, or Related Performance Award agreement, to the Secretary of the Company who shall endorse or cause to be endorsed thereon a notation of such exercise and return all agreements to the Holder.
     As soon as practicable after the exercise of a SAR or Limited SAR, the Company shall transfer to the Holder Reserved Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the SAR or Limited SAR is exercised equal to either the SAR Spread, or the Offer Spread, as the case may be; provided, however, without limiting the generality of , that the Company, in its sole discretion, may withhold from such transferred Reserved Shares any amount necessary to satisfy the Company's minimum obligation for federal and state withholding taxes with respect to such exercise.
(d) 
Section 15
     A SAR or Limited SAR may be exercised only if and to the extent that it is permitted under the terms of the Award which, in the case of a Related Option, shall be only when such Related Option is eligible to be exercised; provided, however, a Limited SAR may be exercised only during the period beginning on the first day following the date of expiration of the Offer and ending on the thirtieth (30th) day following such date.
(e) 
     Upon the exercise or termination of a Related Option, or the payment or termination of a Related Performance Award, the SAR or Limited SAR with respect to such Related Option or Related Performance Award likewise shall terminate.
(f) 
     A SAR or Limited SAR shall be transferable (i) only to the extent, if any, provided in the agreement evidencing the SAR, or (ii) if granted with respect to a Related Option, or Related Performance Award, only to the extent, if any, that such Related Option, or Related Performance Award, is transferable, and under the same conditions.
(g) 
     Each SAR or Limited SAR shall be on such terms and conditions not inconsistent with this Plan as the Committee may determine.
(h)
 
     The Holder shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to the related Reserved Shares as a result of the grant of a SAR or Limited SAR.
(i) 
     With respect to a Holder who, on the date of a proposed exercise of a SAR or Limited SAR, is an officer (as that term is used in Rule 16a-1 promulgated under the 1934 Act or any similar rule which may subsequently be in effect), such proposed exercise may only occur as permitted by Rule 16b-3, including without limitation paragraph (e)(3)(iii) (or any similar rule which may subsequently be in effect promulgated pursuant to Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act).
(j) 
     
19. Section 
83(b)
 Election.
     If as a result of receiving an Award, a Holder receives Restricted Shares, then such Holder may elect under Section 83(b) of the Code to include in his or her gross income, for his or her taxable year in which the Restricted Shares are transferred to such Holder, the excess of the Fair Market Value (determined without regard to any Restriction other than one which by its terms will never lapse), of such Restricted Shares at the Date of Grant, over the amount (if any) paid for the Restricted Shares. If the Holder makes the Section 83(b) election described above, the Holder shall (i) make such election in a manner that is satisfactory to the Administrator, (ii) provide the Administrator with a copy of such election, (iii) agree to promptly notify the Company if any Internal Revenue Service or state tax agent, on audit or otherwise, questions the validity or correctness of such election or of the amount of income reportable on account of such election, and (iv) agree to pay the withholding amounts described in Section 15.
     
20. Vesting of Awards Upon Retirement.
     Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Award or in the Plan, the unVested portion of each Award granted to a Holder in the form of Option Shares, SARs, or Limited SARs and owned by that Holder on the date of that Holder's Separation will vest 100% on the date of that Holder's Separation if, and only if, such Separation occurs on or after the date that Holder attains their Retirement Vesting Date. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Vesting of the unVested portion of an Award granted to a Holder in the form of Restricted Shares shall not accelerate as a result of that Holder's Separation after attaining their Retirement Vesting Date except to the extent, if any, that such Vesting is expressly provided for in the Award.
     
21. Interpretation.
     If any provision of the Plan is held invalid for any reason, such holding shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, but instead the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had never been included in the Plan.
(a) 
     
(b) THIS PLAN SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.
 
     Headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall in no manner be construed as part of this Plan.
(c) 
     Any reference to the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall be a reference to such other gender as is appropriate.
(d) 
     Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to shareholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
(e) 
     .  The Board, or the Committee (subject to the prior written authorization of the Board), may from time to time amend the Plan or any Award; provided, however, that (except to the extent provided in ) no such amendment may, without approval by the shareholders of the Parent, (a) increase the number of Reserved Shares or change the class of Eligible Persons, (b) permit the granting of Awards which expire beyond the maximum 10-year period described in , or (c) make any change for which applicable law or regulatory authority (including the regulatory authority of the NYSE or any other market or exchange on which the Common Stock is traded) would require shareholder approval or for which shareholder approval would be required under Section 162(m) of the Code to secure complete deductibility of all compensation paid as a result of Awards; and provided, further, that no amendment or suspension of the Plan or any Award issued hereunder shall, except as specifically permitted in this Plan or under the terms of such Award, substantially impair any Award previously granted to any Holder without the consent of such Holder.
22. Amendment and Discontinuation of the Plan
Section 9(b)
Section 
9(a)(5)
       The Plan shall be effective as of its Effective Date, and shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of such Effective Date; provided, further, without limitation, that unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award, the termination of the Plan shall not terminate an Award which is outstanding on such date.
23. Effective Date and Termination Date.

 
Exhibit 99.2
1. Purpose of Plan
     This plan (the "Plan") is designed to (i) provide key employees, officers and directors with an added incentive, (ii) to attract and retain personnel of outstanding competence, (iii) to compensate independent contractors whose activities substantially benefit Denbury Resources Inc. (the "Corporation") and its subsidiaries ("Subsidiaries"), and (iv) to further the identity of their interests with those of the shareholders by providing them with the opportunity through share purchase options to acquire an increased proprietary interest in the Corporation.
2. Administration
     The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board, which shall consist of at least two directors appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or if no such committee is appointed, the Board of Directors of the Corporation) (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee") in the manner and on the terms authorized by the Board of Directors.
     The members of the Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, which shall have the power, at any time and from time to time, to remove members from the Committee or to add members to the Committee. Vacancies on the Committee, however caused, shall be filled by action of the Board of Directors.
     The Committee shall elect one of its members as its Chairman and shall hold its meetings at such times and places as it may determine. All decisions and determinations of the Committee shall be made by the majority vote or decision of all of its members present at a meeting; provided, however, that any decision or determination reduced to writing and signed by all of the members of the Committee shall be as fully effective as if it had been made at a meeting duly called and held. The Committee may make any rules and regulations for the conduct of its business that are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan and with the bylaws of the Corporation as it may deem advisable.
     Subject to the express provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall have the authority, in its sole and absolute discretion, (a) to adopt, amend, and rescind administrative and interpretive rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (b) to determine the terms and provisions of the respective agreements ("Agreement") pursuant to which options are granted under the Plan (which need not be identical); (c) to construe the terms of any Agreement and the Plan; and (d) to make all other determinations and perform all other acts necessary or advisable for administering the Plan, including the delegation of such ministerial acts and responsibilities as the Committee deems appropriate. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry it into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. The
 
Committee shall have full discretion to make all determinations on the matters referred to in this Section. Any such determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
3. Granting of Stock Options
     The Committee may from time to time grant options ("Stock Options") to purchase common shares of the Corporation ("Common Shares") to directors, officers, or full-time employees of the Corporation or any other "service provider" to the Corporation within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (collectively, the "Optionees") and fix the number of Common Shares to be optioned to each Optionee.
     A stock option granted under the Plan may either be an incentive stock option ("Incentive Option or ISO") which shall be intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or a non-statutory stock option ("Non-qualified Option or NQ") which is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Code Section 422. All Stock Options shall comply with the requirements of the Plan and/or option agreements issued thereunder.
     The provisions of the Non-qualified Options and Incentive Options granted under the Plan shall be the same except as specifically provided herein. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation that is a Subsidiary Corporation within the meaning of Code Section 424(f). All Stock Options granted to directors who are not employees shall be NQs. Incentive Options may not be granted to any person who, immediately after such option is granted, would own (within the meaning of Sections 421 and 424 of the Code) securities of the Corporation representing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, unless the option price is at least 110% of the Current Market Value (as defined in Section 6 hereof) of the Common Shares as of the date the option is granted and unless the option by its terms must be exercised not later than five (5) years from the date it is granted. In addition, no Incentive Option may be granted after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date this Plan was adopted.
     With respect to any Incentive Option granted under this Plan, the sum of:
a. the aggregate Current Market Value of Common Shares subject to such Incentive Option that first become purchasable in a calendar year under such Incentive Option, and
b. the aggregate Current Market Value of Common Shares or stock of any Subsidiary (or a predecessor of the Corporation or a Subsidiary) subject to any other incentive stock option (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code) of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries (or a predecessor corporation of any such corporation), that first become purchasable in a calendar year under such incentive stock option, may not (with respect to any Optionee) exceed $100,000, with such Current Market Value to be determined as of the date the ISO or such other incentive stock option is granted.
 
     For purposes of this paragraph, "predecessor corporation" means (i) a corporation that was a party to a transaction described in Section 424(a) of the Code (or which would be so described if a substitution or assumption under such section had been effected) with the Corporation, (ii) a corporation which, at the time the new incentive stock option (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code) is granted, is a Subsidiary of the Corporation or a predecessor corporation of any such corporations, or (iii) a predecessor corporation of any such corporations.
4. Authorized Shares
     The total number of Common Shares issuable pursuant to the exercise of Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall not exceed 8,195,587 Common Shares (the "Common Share Maximum"), subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 15. Subject to all necessary regulatory approvals, the Common Share Maximum may be increased by the Board of Directors of the Corporation with the approval of the shareholders of the Corporation. The number of Common shares reserved for issuance to any one Optionee shall not exceed 5% of the issued and outstanding common Shares at any time.
5. Expiry Date
     All Stock Options granted pursuant to this Plan will expire on a date (the "Expiry Date") as determined by the Board of Directors at the time of the grant provided that no Stock Option may be exercised beyond ten (10) years from the time of the grant.
6. Exercise Price
     The exercise price (the "Exercise Price") of any Stock Option shall be fixed by the Committee when such Stock Option is granted and shall not be less than the Current Market Value. For this purpose, the "Current Market Value" shall mean the simple average closing trading price per Common Share on the New York Stock Exchange (and if the Common Shares are not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on such stock exchange on which the Common Shares are traded) for the ten (10) trading days preceding the date of the grant, or if such Common Shares are not listed on any stock exchange at a price determined by the Committee. If no trades are reported in any one of the ten trading days, the "Current Market Value" shall be determined by reference to the closing trading price on the last trading day preceding the ten (10) trading day period.
 
7. Vesting of Stock Options
     Stock Options will vest on the date (the "Vesting Date") the Optionee becomes entitled to exercise that portion of the granted Stock Option and purchase that portion of the Common Shares as determined by a vesting schedule. This vesting schedule will be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, and modified from time to time, in their sole discretion. Unless modified by the Board of Directors, 25% of a Stock Option shall vest one year from the date the Stock Option is granted (the "Grant Date") and an additional 25% of the Stock Option shall vest on each successive anniversary of the Grant Date until the Stock Option is fully vested.
8. Vesting of Stock Options on Death
     Notwithstanding the Vesting Date but subject to the Expiry Date, in the event of an Optionee's death while a director or employee of the Corporation, all of the Stock Options granted to the Optionee will vest on the day immediately preceding the date of his death and the Optionee's estate will have the right, for a period of 365 days thereafter, to exercise all of the Stock Options unexercised. Stock Options not exercised within said 365 day period will automatically terminate.
9. Vesting of Stock Options on Disability
     Notwithstanding the Vesting Date but subject to the Expiry Date, in the event an Optionee becomes Disabled, all of the Stock Options granted to the Optionee will vest on the day immediately preceding the day on which the Optionee becomes entitled to long-term disability payments. For all Incentive Stock Options, Disability shall mean permanent and total disability as defined in Code Section 22(e)(3). For Non-qualified Options, Disabled shall mean entitlement to long-term disability payments pursuant to the Corporation's disability insurance program, if any (or if not a participant in such program, would have been entitled to such payments if the Optionee were a participant in such program). The Optionee will have the right, for a period of 90 days after his date of termination due to Disability, to exercise all of the Stock Options unexercised. Stock Options not exercised within the said 90 day period will automatically terminate.
10. Vesting on Change of Control
     Notwithstanding the Vesting Date but subject to the Expiry Date and paragraphs 8, 9, 11 and 12, all of the Stock Options granted to the Optionee will vest on the day immediately preceding a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined) and the Optionee will have the right, for a period of 180 days thereafter, to exercise all of the Stock Options unexercised. Stock Options not exercised within the said 180 day period will terminate on the earlier of their Expiry Date and the expiry of the said 180 day period.
     For the purposes of this clause, "Change of Control" of the Corporation will include and be interpreted as including the following events and circumstances:
 
     For the purposes of this definition, "Person" means: (a) an individual; (b) a partnership; (c) a corporation, an incorporated association, an incorporated syndicate or any other incorporated organization; (d) an unincorporated association, an unincorporated syndicate or any other unincorporated organization; (e) a trust; or (f) a trustee, an executor, an administrator or any other legal representative.
     For the purposes of determining who has made an acquisition referred to in this definition, the beneficial owner of the acquired Common Shares shall be considered the acquirer of such Common Shares. For the purposes of this definition, all Common Shares and Convertible Securities acquired by Persons will include Common Shares and Convertible Securities held by their Affiliates. For the purposes of this clause, "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified person, a person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the specified person. Where Common Shares or Convertible Securities are acquired by any two or more Persons act jointly or in concert, all such Common Shares or Convertible Securities will be included in the calculation of a Change of Control. For the purposes of determining when a Change of Control occurs by Persons acting jointly or in concert, a Change of Control will be deemed to occur when the Persons first attempt to act, or in fact act, jointly or in concert.
 
     In the event of a Change of Control, the Optionee or his legal representative will be given written notice by the Corporation of the Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of this Plan and the period set out in this Clause 10 will commence on the date notice is given.
11. Vesting on Retirement
     Notwithstanding the Vesting Date but subject to the Expiry Date, if an Optionee retires pursuant to a retirement policy approved by the Board of Directors, all of the Stock Options granted to the Optionee will vest on the day immediately preceding the date of his retirement and the Optionee will have the right, for a period of 90 days thereafter, to exercise all of the Stock Options unexercised. Stock Options not exercised within the said 90-day period will automatically terminate.
12. Vesting on Resignation or Termination
     If an Optionee resigns from the Corporation or is terminated by the Corporation (with or without cause), his Stock Options that were not vested will immediately terminate and be of no further force and effect; provided, however, the resigning or terminated Optionee may, subject to the Expiry Date, for a period of 90 days from the date of resignation or termination, exercise the Stock Options that were vested and not previously exercised on the date of resignation or termination. Without limiting the generality of the forgoing, in addition to any other resignation or termination of an Optionee's relationship with the Corporation, an Optionee shall be considered to have resigned or terminated such Optionee's relationship with the Corporation on the date (if any) on which such Optionee shall cease to be a full time employee of the Corporation; provided, further, that for all purposes hereof (and for purposes of any Options), an Optionee shall cease to be a full time employee of the Corporation on the date, as determined by the Corporation, on which such Optionee commences a customary work schedule of less than thirty (30) hours per week.
13. Non-assignability
     All Stock Options granted pursuant to this Plan will be personal to the Optionee and will not be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
14. Exercise of Option
     Subject to the provisions of this Plan and the Optionee's Agreement, Stock Options may be exercised from time to time by delivery to the Corporation at its head office in Plano, Texas, or such other place as may be specified by the Corporation, of a written notice of exercise specifying the number of Common Shares with respect to which the Stock Option is being exercised and accompanied by payment in full (in such manner as determined by the Committee) of the purchase price of Common Shares then being purchased. As soon as practicable thereafter, and in any event within ten (10) days following the receipt of such notice, the Corporation shall provide written notice to the Optionee of the amount, if any, required by the Corporation to be withheld (the "Withholding Notice") in accordance with applicable law with
 
regard to the Stock Options being exercised. The Optionee shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within ten (10) days following receipt of the Withholding Notice, make payment to the Corporation for the amount specified in such Withholding Notice. Upon the exercise of the Stock Options, payment being made in the manner specified herein, and receipt by the Corporation of the amount specified in the Withholding Notice, if any, the Corporation will cause to be delivered to the Optionee a certificate or certificates, representing such Common Shares in the name of the Optionee or his legal personal representatives or otherwise as he may or they may in writing direct.
     The Corporation shall use its best efforts to effectuate following the Effective Date the registration of the shares underlying the Stock Options under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on Form S-8 and qualification of such shares under applicable state securities laws where such qualification is required. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in the Plan or in any Stock Option granted under the Plan shall require the Corporation to issue any shares upon exercise of any Option if such issuance would, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, constitute a violation of any securities law or any other applicable statute or regulations, as then in effect. The Corporation shall not in any case be required to sell, issue or deliver a fractional share pursuant to any Stock Option.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing payment provisions, the Committee, in processing a purported exercise of a Stock Option, granted pursuant to the Plan, may refuse to recognize the exercise of an Option if, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, (i) the Participant is, or within the six months preceding such exercise was, subject to reporting under Section 16 (a) of the Exchange Act and (ii) there is a substantial likelihood that the method of exercise selected by the participant would subject the Participant to substantial risk of liability under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
15. Alterations in Common Shares
     The Exercise Price will be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows:
(i) declares a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Shares in Common Shares;
(ii) subdivides its outstanding Common Shares into a greater number of Common Shares; or
(iii) consolidates its outstanding Common Shares into a smaller number of Common Shares;
 
 
 
(i) by reason of a share dividend, split, combination, exchange of shares or other recapitalization, merger, or otherwise, in which the Corporation is the surviving corporation, or
(ii) by reason of a spin-off of a part of the Corporation into a separate entity, or assumptions and conversions of outstanding grants due to an acquisition by the Corporation of a separate entity,
16. Option Agreement
     A written agreement will be entered into between the Corporation and each Optionee to whom a Stock Option is granted hereunder, which agreement will set out the number of Common Shares subject to option, the Exercise Price, the Vesting Dates, the Expiry Date and any other terms approved by the Committee, all in accordance with the provisions of this Plan. The agreement will be in the form of agreements attached hereto or in such other form as the Committee may from time to time approve or authorize the officers of the Corporation to enter into and may contain such terms as may be considered necessary in order that the Stock Option will comply with any provisions respecting Stock Options in the income tax or other laws in force in any country or jurisdiction of which the person to whom the Stock Option is granted from time to time is a resident or citizen of, or the rules of any regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Corporation. More than one Option may be granted to the same employee, officer, director, or service provider and be outstanding concurrently. In the event an eligible individual is granted both one or more Incentive Stock Options and one or more Non-qualified Options, such grants shall be evidenced by separate Agreements, one for each of the Incentive Stock Option grants and one for each of the Non-qualified Option grants.
 
17. Amendment or Discontinuance of Plan
     The Board of Directors of the Corporation may amend or discontinue this Plan at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment may, without the consent of the Optionee, alter or impair any Stock Option previously granted to an Optionee under this Plan except as may be necessary for any ISO to comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or with respect to any Stock Option to cause the Plan to qualify for the exemption provided by Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For purposes of complying with changes in the Code or ERISA, the Board of Directors may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. For purposes of meeting or addressing any other changes in legal requirements or any other purpose, the Board of Directors may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan only once every six (6) months. Subject to changes in law or other legal requirements, including any changes in the provisions of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that would permit otherwise, the Plan may not be amended without approval of the shareholders of the Corporation (as provided in Rule 16b-3) to (a) increase the aggregate number of shares as to which Options may be granted under the Plan; (b) increase the maximum period during which Options may be exercised; (c) amend the Plan more frequently than once every six (6) months other than to conform with changes in the Code; (d) materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan; or (e) materially increase the benefits accruing to Optionees under the Plan. No Stock Option may be granted during any suspension of the Plan or after the Plan has been terminated, and no amendment, suspension or termination shall, without an Optionee's consent, alter or impair, other than as provided in the Plan and the Optionee's Agreement, any of the rights of obligations under any Stock Option previously granted to such Optionee under the Plan.
18. Common Shares Duly Issued
     Common Shares issued upon the exercise of a Stock Option granted hereunder will be validly issued and allotted as fully paid and non-assessable upon payment thereof in accordance with the terms of the particular agreement and this Plan and the issuance of Common Shares thereunder will not require a resolution or approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     No Common Shares shall be issued under the Plan unless counsel for the Corporation shall be satisfied that such issuance will be in compliance with applicable United States federal and state securities laws. Certificates for Common Shares delivered under the Plan may be subject to such stock transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Common Shares are then listed, and any applicable United States federal or state securities law. The Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to refer to those restrictions.
 
19. Prior Plans
     This Plan shall entirely replace and supersede all prior share option plans, if any, enacted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or its predecessor corporation including, without limitation, the share option plan (the "Previous Plan") approved by the Board of Directors as of May 25, 1992 and approved by the shareholders of the Corporation as of June 30, 1992. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all agreements entered into pursuant to the Previous Plan and remaining outstanding on the effective date of this Plan continue with full force and effect under this Plan.
20. Right to Terminate Employment
     Nothing contained in the Plan, or in any Agreement, shall confer upon any Optionee the right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Corporation or Subsidiary to terminate his employment any time.
21. Liability of Corporation
     Neither the Corporation, its Subsidiaries, its directors, officers or employees nor any member of the Committee shall be liable for any act, omission, or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Stock Option granted under it, and members of the Board of Directors and the Committee shall be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Corporation in respect of (1) any claim, loss, damage, or expense (including attorneys' fees), (2) the costs of settling any suit (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Corporation), (3) amounts paid in satisfaction of a judgment ( that no indemnification shall be allowed under this Section for a judgment based on a finding of bad faith) arising from such claim, loss, etc. to the full extent permitted by law. In addition neither the Corporation, its directors, officers, or employees, nor any of the Corporation's Subsidiaries shall be liable to any Optionee or other person if it is determined for any reason by the Internal Revenue Service or any court having jurisdiction that any Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder do not qualify for tax treatment as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code.
except
22. Severability
     If any provision of this Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan, but such provision shall be fully severable, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included in the Plan.
23. Notice
     Whenever any notice is required or permitted under the Plan, such notice must be in writing and personally delivered, telecopied (if confirmed), or sent by mail or by a courier service. Any notice required or permitted to be delivered under this Plan shall be deemed to be
 
delivered on the date on which it is personally delivered, or, if mailed, whether actually received or not, on the third business day after it is deposited in the mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the person who is to receive it at the address which such person has previously specified by written notice delivered in accordance with this Section, or if by courier, twenty-four (24) hours after it is sent, addressed as described in this Section. The Corporation or an Optionee may change, at any time and from time to time, by written notice to the other, the address which it or he had previously specified for receiving notices. Until changed in accordance with the Plan, the Corporation and each Optionee shall specify as its and his address for receiving notices the address set forth in the Agreement pertaining to the Shares to which such notice relates.
24. Effective Date and Termination Date
     This Plan is effective from August 9, 1995 subject to confirmation by all necessary shareholder and regulatory approvals. If this Plan is not approved by the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be voted at a meeting of holders of outstanding shares of equity securities of the Corporation no later than August 9, 1996, this Plan and the Option (s) granted under the Plan shall be null and void. This Plan shall terminate on August 9, 2005, after which options may no longer be granted pursuant hereto.

 
Exhibit 99.3
     As of the Effective Date, Denbury Resources, Inc. (the "Company") hereby establishes a severance compensation plan known as the Denbury Resources Severance Protection Plan (the "Plan"), as set forth in this document. For purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), the Company intends the Plan to be a "Severance Plan" within the meaning of the applicable ERISA regulations.
     As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
     . The Board or any committee thereof as may be appointed from time to time by the Board to supervise the administration of the Plan.
Section 2.1 Administrator
     . With respect to a specified person, a person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the specified person.
Section 2.2 Affiliate
     . The amount a Participant is entitled to receive as wages or salary on an annualized basis, calculated on the basis of their salary rate on either the date immediately prior to a Change in Control or their Termination Date, whichever amount is higher.
Section 2.3 Base Salary
     . The Board of Directors of the Company.
Section 2.4 Board
     . An amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total amount of bonuses awarded to the Participant during the twenty-four months prior to the date of the Change in Control.
Section 2.5 Bonus Amount
     . An Employer shall have "Cause" to terminate a Participant if the Participant (i) willfully and continually fails to substantially perform his duties with the Employer (other than a failure resulting from the Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) which failure continues for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written notice of demand for substantial performance has been delivered to the Participant specifying the manner in which the Participant has failed to substantially perform, or (ii) willfully engages in
Section 2.6 Cause
 
conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Employer, monetarily or otherwise; provided, however, that no termination of the Participant's employment shall be for Cause until there shall have been delivered to the Participant a copy of a written notice specifying in detail the particulars of the Participant's conduct which violates either (i) or (ii) above. No act, nor failure to act, on the Participant's part, shall be considered "willful" unless he has acted or failed to act with an absence of good faith and without a reasonable belief that his action or failure to act was in the best interest of the Employer. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, no failure to perform by the Participant after Notice of Termination is given by or to the Participant constitute Cause.
shall
     . A "Change in Control" shall mean any one of the following:
Section 2.7 Change in Control
          (a) "Continuing Directors" no longer constitute a majority of the Board; the term "Continuing Director" means any individual who has served in such capacity for one year or more, together with any new directors whose election by such Board or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of a majority of the Directors of the Company then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such one-year period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved;
          (b) after the date of adoption of the severance plan, any person or group of persons acting together as an entity (other than the Texas Pacific Group and its Affiliates) become (i) the beneficial owners (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) directly or indirectly, of shares of common stock representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled generally to vote for the election of the Company's directors, and (ii) the largest beneficial owner directly or indirectly of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled generally to vote for the election of the Company's directors;
          (c) the merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party if (i) the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to the effective date of such merger or consolidation have beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of less than forty percent (40%) of the combined voting power to vote for the election of directors of the surviving corporation or other entity following the effective date of such merger or consolidation; or (ii) fifty percent (50%) or more of the individuals constituting the members the Investment Committee are terminated due to the Change in Control; or
          (d) the sale of all or substantially all, of the assets of the Company or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.6, if a Participant's employment with the Employer is terminated by the Employer other than for "Cause" six months
 
prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, such termination shall be deemed to have occurred immediately following a Change in Control.
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, under no circumstances will a change in the constitution of the board of directors of any Subsidiary, a change in the beneficial ownership of any Subsidiary, the merger or consolidation of a Subsidiary with any other entity, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of any Subsidiary or the liquidation or dissolution of any Subsidiary constitute a "Change in Control" under this Plan.
     "Common Shares" means shares of common stock, $.001 par value of Denbury Resources Inc.
Section 2.8 Common Shares.
     . Denbury Resources Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Section 2.9 Company
     . The date the Plan is approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, or such other date as the Board shall designate in its resolution approving the Plan.
Section 2.10 Effective Date
     . The Company and any Subsidiary of the Company which adopts this Plan as a Participating Employer. With respect to a Participant who is not an employee of the Company, any reference under this Plan to such Participant's "Employer" shall refer only to the employer of the Participant, and in no event shall be construed to refer to the Company as well.
Section 2.11 Employer
     . "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions:
Section 2.12 Good Reason
          (a) a change in the Participant's status, title, position or responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) which, in the Participant's reasonable judgment, represents a substantial reduction of the status, title, position or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior thereto; the assignment to the Participant of any duties or responsibilities which, in the Participant's reasonable judgment, are inconsistent with such status, title, position or responsibilities; or any removal of the Participant from, or failure to reappoint or reelect him to, any such position with the Employer, including, but not limited to corporate officer positions or positions as a member of the Investment Committee, except in connection with the termination of his employment for Cause or by the Participant other than for Good Reason;
          (b) a reduction in the Participant's Base Salary, as such base salary may be increased from time to time thereafter, or the failure by the Employer to provide the Participant with compensation and benefits at least equal (in terms of benefit levels and/or reward opportunities) to those provided for under each employee benefit plan, program and practice as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (or as in effect following the Change in Control, if greater), including, but not limited to, any stock option plan, stock purchase plan, pension plan, life insurance plan, health and accident plan or disability plan;
 
          (c) the Employer's requiring the Participant (without the consent of the Participant) to be based at any place outside a twenty-five (25) mile radius of his place of employment immediately prior to a Change in Control, except for reasonably required travel on the Employer's business which is not materially greater than such travel requirements prior to the Change in Control, or, in the event the Participant consents to any relocation beyond such 25 mile radius, the failure by the Employer to pay (or reimburse the Participant) for all reasonable moving expenses incurred by him relating to a change of his principal residence in connection with such relocation and to indemnify the Participant against any loss (defined as the difference between the actual sale price of such residence and the higher of (i) his aggregate investment in such residence or (ii) the fair market value of such residence as determined by a real estate appraiser designated by the Participant and reasonably satisfactory to the Employer) realized on the sale of the Participant's principal residence in connection with any such change of residence;
          (d) any material breach by the Employer of any provision of this Plan;
          (e) any purported termination of the Participant's employment for Cause by the Employer which does not otherwise comply with the terms of this Plan; or
          (f) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to Section 2.6(d), the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption of, or the agreement to perform, this Agreement by the purchaser or purchasers of the Company's assets as contemplated in Article VII.
     . Each employee of the Employer who has been designated by his Employer as a member of the Investment Committee, as the membership of such Committee may be changed from time to time. Members of the Investment Committee as of the date of the Plan's execution are listed on Schedule B attached hereto.
Section 2.13 Investment Committee
     . Each employee of the Employer who has been designated by his Employer as a "Management Group Employee", as may be designated from time to time by the Board. Management Group Employees as of the date of the Plan's execution are listed on Schedule C attached hereto.
Section 2.14 Management Group Employee
     . A notice which indicates the specific provisions in this Plan relied upon as the basis for any termination of employment which sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Participant's employment under the provision so indicated; no purported termination of employment shall be effective without such Notice of Termination.
Section 2.15 Notice of Termination
     . Each employee of the Employer that is a corporate officer and is so designated from time to time pursuant to the Company's Bylaws. Officers as of the date of the Plan's execution are listed on Schedule A attached hereto.
Section 2.16 Officer
 
     . A Participant who meets the eligibility requirements of Article III.
Section 2.17 Participant
     . A Subsidiary of the Company which adopts this Plan in accordance with Section 8.4 below, and listed on Schedule D attached hereto, and as may be amended from time to time pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan.
Section 2.18 Participating Employer
     . For a Participant, the fifteenth (15) day after the event triggering the right of that Participant to a Severance Benefit.
Section 2.19 Payment Date
th
     . The benefits payable in accordance with Article IV of the Plan.
Section 2.20 Severance Benefit
     A Participant who is neither a member of the Investment Committee, nor a Management Group Employee nor Officer shall receive one (1) Severance Unit, to be used in calculating his Severance Benefit, for (i) each ten thousand dollars ($10,000) of his Base Salary plus Bonus Amount, and (ii) each twelve months of employment by the Company or an Employer; the sum of any partial Severance Units under (i) and (ii) shall be rounded to the nearest higher whole number of Severance Units. However, the maximum number of Severance Units that may be granted to a Participant is eighteen (18), and each Participant shall be granted at least four (4) Severance Units.
Section 2.21 Severance Units.
     . Any subsidiary of the Company, and any wholly or partially owned partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation and other form of investment by the Company.
Section 2.22 Subsidiary
     . In the case of the Participant's death, the Participant's Termination Date shall be his date of death. In all other cases, the Participant's Termination Date shall be the date specified in the Notice of Termination subject to the following:
Section 2.23 Termination Date
          (a) If the Participant's employment is terminated by the Employer for Cause, the date specified in the Notice of Termination shall be at least thirty (30) days from the date the Notice of Termination is given to the Participant; and
          (b) If the Participant terminates his employment for Good Reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination shall not be more than sixty (60) days from the date the Notice of Termination is given to the Employer.
 
     . Once a person is employed by their Employer they shall automatically become a Participant in the Plan.
Section 3.1 Participation
     . A Participant shall cease to be a Participant in the Plan upon the first to occur of: (i) the date he ceases to be an employee of the Employer at any time six months prior to a Change in Control, (ii) the date his employment is terminated following a Change in Control under circumstances where he is not entitled to a Severance Benefit under the terms of this Plan, or (iii) the date on which he has received all of the benefits to which he is entitled under this Plan.
Section 3.2 Duration of Participation
     Right to Severance Benefit.
Section 4.1
          (a) After a Change in Control has occurred, a Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Employer a Severance Benefit in the amount provided in Sections 4.2 and 4.3 if his employment is terminated during the period beginning six months prior to a Change of Control and ending two years after a Change of Control, for any reason other than (i) termination by the Employer for Cause or (ii) termination by the Participant for other than Good Reason.
          (b) A Participant shall be entitled to a Severance Benefit if that individual satisfies all the conditions under the Plan required to qualify as a Participant and he or she is not otherwise disqualified or excluded from eligibility under the terms of the Plan.
          (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the sale, divestiture or other disposition of a Subsidiary, shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment of employees employed by such Subsidiary, and such employees shall not be entitled to benefits from the Company or any Participating Employer under this Plan as a result of such sale, divestiture, or other disposition, or as a result of any subsequent termination of employment.
     . If a Participant is entitled to a Severance Benefit under Section 4.1, the employer shall pay to the Participant, on or before the Payment Date, an amount in cash equal to one of the following amounts:
Section 4.2 Amount of Severance Benefit
          (a) for the Company's Chief Executive Officer and for all other members of the Investment Committee, three (3) times the sum of the Participant's Base Salary and the Bonus Amount;
 
          (b) for all other Officers that are not members of the Investment Committee, two and one-half (2-1/2) times the sum of the Participant's Base Salary and the Bonus Amount;
          (c) for all members of the Management Group, two (2) times the sum of the Participant's Base Salary and the Bonus Amount;
          (d) for all other employees, one-twelfth (1/12) of the sum of the Participant's Base Salary and Bonus Amount multiplied by the Participant's Severance Units.
     . If a Participant is entitled to a Severance Benefit under Section 4.1, such Participant shall also be entitled to:
Section 4.3 Further Benefits
          (a) Continuation at Employer's expense, on behalf of the Participant and his dependents and beneficiaries, all medical, dental, vision, and health benefits and insurance coverage which were being provided to the Participant at the time of termination of employment for a period of time subsequent to the Participant's termination of employment. This period of time shall be equal to fifty percent (50%) of the number of months of compensation represented by the Participants' Severance Benefit, with the number of months of compensation to be based upon the Participant's monthly Base Salary immediately prior to the Termination Date. The benefits provided in this Section 4.3(a) shall be no less favorable to the Participant, in terms of amounts and deductibles and costs to him, than the coverage provided the Participant under the plans providing such benefits at the time of termination of Participant's employment. An Employer may pay the employee's cost of benefits provided pursuant to Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986 and allowed under the Employer's benefit plans for the applicable period of time in order to satisfy its obligation under this provision.
          (b) The Employer's obligation hereunder to provide a benefit shall terminate if the Participant obtains comparable coverage under a subsequent employer's benefit plan. For purposes of the preceding sentence, benefits will not be comparable during any waiting period for eligibility for such benefits or during any period during which there is a preexisting condition limitation on such benefits. The Employer also shall pay a lump sum equal to the amount of any additional income tax payable by the Participant and attributable to the benefits provided under subparagraph (a) of this Section at the time such tax is imposed upon the Participant. At the end of the period of coverage set forth above, the Participant shall have the option to have assigned to him at no cost to the Participant and with no apportionment of prepaid premiums, any assignable insurance owned by the Employer and relating specifically to the Participant, and the Participant shall be entitled to all health and similar benefits that are or would have been made available to the Participant under law.
     . The Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Article IV by
Section 4.4 Mitigation or Set-off of Amounts Payable Hereunder
 
seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for in this Article IV be reduced by any compensation earned by the Participant as the result of employment by the Company or any successor after the Payment Date or by another employer after the Termination Date, or otherwise. The Employer's obligations hereunder also shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Employer may have against the Participant.
     . In the event a Participant becomes entitled to receive from the Employer a Severance Benefit under this Article IV above and such Employer fails to pay such Severance Benefit, the Company shall assume the obligation of such Employer to pay such Severance Benefit. In consideration of the Company's assumption of the obligation to pay such Severance Benefit provided under this Plan, the Company (as the source of payment of benefits under the Plan) shall be subrogated to any recovery (irrespective of whether there is recovery from the third party of the full amount of all claims against the third party) or right to recovery of either a Participant or his legal representative against the Employer or any person or entity. The Participant or his legal representative shall cooperate in doing what is reasonably necessary to assist the Company in exercising such rights, including but not limited to notifying the Company of the institution of any claim against a third party and notifying the third party and the third party's insurer, if any, of the Company's subrogation rights. Neither the Participant nor his legal representative shall do anything after a loss to prejudice such rights. In its sole discretion, the Company reserves the right to prosecute an action in the name of the Participant or his legal representative against any third parties potentially liable to the Participant. The Company shall have the absolute discretion to settle subrogation claims on any basis it deems warranted and appropriate under the circumstances. If a Participant or his legal representative initiates a lawsuit against any third parties potentially liable to the Participant, the Company shall not be responsible for any attorney's fees or court costs that may be incurred in such liability claim. The Company shall be entitled, to the extent of any payments made to or on behalf of a Participant or a dependent of the Participant, to be paid first from the proceeds of any settlement or judgment that may result from the exercise of any rights of recovery asserted by or on behalf of a Participant or his legal representative against any person or entity legally responsible for the injury for which such payment was made. The right is also hereby given the Company to receive directly from the Employer or any third party(ies), attorney(s) or insurance company(ies) an amount equal to the amount paid to or on behalf of the Participant.
Section 4.5 Company Guarantee of Severance Benefit
     . By acceptance of any Severance Benefit from the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed to have agreed to adhere to all terms of the Plan. A Participant who is entitled to severance benefits under an employment agreement with the Employer may elect, in writing within ten (10) days after his Termination Date, to receive the severance benefits provided under this Plan in lieu of, but not in addition to, such other severance benefits as may be provided by such other agreement. In the event that no election is made, the Participant shall forego his right to receive the severance benefits provided under this Plan.
Section 4.6 Agreement to Plan, Election of Severance Benefits
 
     . A Participant shall forfeit any and all entitlement to any Severance Benefit if the Administrator determines that the Participant has failed to fulfill any requirement of the Plan.
Section 4.7 Forfeiture of Severance Benefits
     . If a Participant dies before his or her Severance Benefits have been paid in full, the remaining Severance Benefits will be paid to the beneficiaries named in such Participant's last will and testament, or if no will or beneficiary exist then to such Participant's heirs at law. The Plan shall be discharged fully and completely to the extent of any payment made to any such beneficiaries or heirs at law.
Section 4.8 Payment after Death
     . Any purported termination of employment, either by the Employer or by the Participant, shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other.
Section 5.1 Written Notice Required
     . In the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution of any type by the Employer to or for the benefit of an Officer, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Plan or otherwise (the "Total Payments"), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax", then the Officer shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that at the time of payment by the Officer of all taxes (including additional excise taxes under said Section 4999 and any interest, and penalties imposed with respect to any taxes) imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Officer shall have an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Total Payments. The Company shall pay the Gross-Up Payment to the Officer within twenty (20) business days after the Payment Date or the Termination Date, whichever is applicable.
Section 6.1 Gross-Up Payment
     . All determinations required to be made under this Article VI, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the independent accounting firm retained by the Company on the date of Change in Control (the "Accounting Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Officer within fifteen (15) business days of the Payment Date or Termination Date, whichever is applicable, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer, it shall furnish the Officer with an opinion that he has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Officer. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that a Gross-Up Payment which will not have been made by the
Section 6.2 Determination By Accountant
 
Company should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 6.3 and the Officer thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Officer.
     . The Officer shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten (10) business days after the Officer knows of such claim and shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Officer shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period following the date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Officer in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Officer shall:
Section 6.3 Notification Required
          (a) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
          (b) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company,
          (c) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest such claim,
          (d) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim, provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.3, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Officer to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund, or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Officer agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that if the Company directs the Officer to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment to the Officer, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and
 
hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest or penalties with respect thereto, imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Officer with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Officer shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
     . If, after the receipt by the Officer of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 6.3, the Officer becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Officer shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 6.3) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Officer of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 6.3, a determination is made that the Officer shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Officer in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
Section 6.4 Repayment
     . This Plan shall bind any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not, by the foregoing provision or by operation of law, be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach hereof and shall entitle the Participant to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as the Participant would be entitled hereunder if the Participant terminated his employment for Good Reason, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Termination Date. As used herein, "the Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which executes and delivers the agreement provided for in this Section 7.1 or which otherwise becomes bound by all the terms and provisions hereof by operation of law.
Section 7.1 Successors
 
     . This Plan shall continue in effect until terminated in accordance with Section 8.2. If a Change in Control occurs, this Plan shall continue in full force and effect, and shall not terminate or expire, until after all Participants who have become entitled to a Severance Benefit hereunder shall have received all of such benefits in full.
Section 8.1 Duration
     . The Plan and its attached Schedules may be terminated or amended in any respect by resolution adopted by two-thirds of the Board; provided, however, that no such amendment or termination of the Plan may be made if such amendment or termination would adversely affect any right of a Participant who became a Participant prior to the later of (i) the date of adoption of any such amendment or termination, or (ii) the effective date of any such amendment or termination; and, provided further, that the Plan no longer shall be subject to amendment, change, substitution, deletion, revocation or termination in any respect whatsoever following a Change in Control.
Section 8.2 Amendment and Termination
     . The form of any amendment or termination of the Plan shall be a written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer or officers of the Company, certifying that the amendment or termination has been approved by the Board.
Section 8.3 Form of Amendment
     . Any Subsidiary of the Company may, with the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, adopt and become an Employer under this Plan by executing and delivering to the Company an appropriate instrument agreeing to be bound as an Employer by all of the terms of the Plan with respect to its eligible employees. The adoptive instrument may contain such changes and amendments in the terms and provisions of the Plan as adopted by such Subsidiary as may be desired by such Subsidiary and acceptable to the Company. The adoptive instrument shall specify the effective date of such adoption of the Plan and shall become as to such adopting Subsidiary a part of this Plan.
Section 8.4 Adoption by Subsidiaries
     . With respect to any claim for Severance Benefits under the Plan, the Administrator will issue a decision on whether the claim is denied or granted within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the claim by the Administrator, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, in which case a decision will be rendered not later than twenty (20) days after receipt of the claim. Written notice of the extension will be furnished to the Participant prior to the expiration of the initial fifteen (15) day period and will indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time for processing the claim and will indicate the date the Administrator expects to render its decision. If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the decision in writing by the Administrator shall include the specific reasons for the denial and reference to the Plan provisions on which the denial is based.
Section 9.1 Claims Procedure
 
The decision also shall include a description of any additional information which the Participant needs to submit in order to refile the claim, along with an explanation of why such additional information is necessary and how the procedure for reviewing claims works. If the notice of denial is not furnished in accordance with the above procedure, the claim shall be deemed denied and the Participant is permitted to proceed with the review procedure.
     . If his claim is denied in whole or in part, an Participant may appeal in writing a denial of the claim, in part or in whole, and request a review by the Administrator. The appeal must be submitted within sixty (60) days after notice of the denial of the claim. The Participant may request in writing to review copies of pertinent Plan documents in connection with the appeal. The Administrator will review the appeal and notify the Participant of the final decision within fifteen (15) days after receiving the request for review unless the Administrator requires an extension due to special circumstances, in which case the final decision will be made within twenty (20) days after the Administrator receives the request for review. The notice of the final decision must include the specific reasons for the decision and specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the Administrator's decision is based.
Section 9.2 Appeals Procedure
     . No action may be brought for benefits provided by this Plan or to enforce any right hereunder until after a claim has been submitted to and determined by the Administrator and all appeal rights under the Plan have been exhausted. Thereafter, the Participant may bring an action for benefits provided by this Plan or to enforce any right hereunder. The Participant's beneficiary should follow the same claims procedure in the event of the Participant's death.
Section 9.3 Exclusive Initial Remedy
     . The general administration of the Plan and the duty to carry out its provisions shall be vested in the Administrator, which shall be the "Plan Administrator" as that term is defined in section 3(16)(A) of ERISA. The Plan and Severance Benefits under the Plan shall be administered by the Administrator appointed from time to time by the Company. The Administrator may, in its discretion, secure the services of other parties, including agents and/or employees to carry out the day-to-day functions necessary to an efficient operation of the Plan. The Administrator's interpretations, decisions, requests and exercises of power and responsibilities shall not be subject to review by anyone and shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon all persons. The Administrator shall, in its sole and absolute discretion, have the exclusive right to interpret all of the terms of the Plan, to determine eligibility for coverage and benefits, to resolve disputes as to eligibility, type, or amount of benefits, to correct any errors or omissions in the form or operation of the Plan, to make such other determinations with respect to the Plan, and to exercise such other powers and responsibilities as shall be provided for in the Plan or as shall be necessary or helpful with respect thereto. The Administrator under and pursuant to this Plan shall be the named fiduciary for purposes of section 402(a) of ERISA with respect to all powers and duties expressly or implicitly assigned to it hereunder. Any determination or decision by the Company made under or with respect to any provision of the
Section 10.1 In General
 
Plan shall be in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, shall not be subject to review by anyone and shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons.
     . The Administrator shall receive no compensation for its services as Administrator, but it shall be entitled to reimbursement for all sums reasonably and necessarily expended by it in the performance of such duties.
Section 10.2 Reimbursement and Compensation
     . The Administrator shall have the power to make reasonable and uniform rules and regulations required in the administration of the Plan, to make all determinations necessary for the Plan's administration, except those determinations which the Plan requires others to make, and to construe and interpret the Plan wherever necessary to carry out its intent and purpose and to facilitate its administration.
Section 10.3 Rulemaking Powers
     All Severance Benefits shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the Company or an Employer, and no special or separate fund shall be established. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, and nothing contained in the Plan nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall create or be construed to create a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an employer and a Participant, beneficiary, employee or other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive Severance Benefits from the Company or an Employer under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or Employer. For purposes of the Code, the Company intends this Plan to be an unfunded, unsecured promise to pay on the part of the Company. For purposes of ERISA, the Company intends the Plan to be a "severance plan" within the meaning of the applicable ERISA regulations.
Section 11.1 No Separate Fund Established
     . The Company agrees to pay, upon written demand therefor by the Participant, fifty percent (50%) of all legal fees and expenses which the Participant may reasonably incur in order to collect amounts to be paid or obtain benefits to be provided to such Participant under the Plan, plus in each case interest at the "applicable Federal rate" (as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code). In any such action brought by a Participant for damages or to enforce any provisions hereof, he shall be entitled to seek both legal and equitable relief and remedies, including, without limitation, specific performance of the Company's obligations hereunder, in his sole discretion. However, in any instance where a Participant receives, as the result of a final, nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or a mutually agreed upon settlement with the Company, Severance Benefits greater than those first offered by the Company or its successor to the Participant, then the Company shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of all such legal fees and expenses incurred by the Participant.
Section 12.1 Participant's Legal Expenses
 
     . This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Employer any obligation to retain a Participant as an employee, to change the status of a Participant's employment as a Management Group Employee or in any other position, or to change any employment policies of the Employer.
Section 12.2 Employment Status
     . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 12.3 Validity and Severability
     . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participant's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If the Participant should die while any amounts would still be payable to him hereunder as if he had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms hereof to his designee or, if there be no such designee, to his estate.
Section 12.4 The Participant's Heirs, etc
     . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Texas.
Section 12.5 Governing Law
     . A Participant shall be entitled to enforce the provisions of this Plan in any state or federal court located in the Dallas County, Texas, in addition to any other appropriate forum.
Section 12.6 Choice of Forum
     . For the purposes hereof, notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the Company at its principal place of business and to the Participant at his address as shown on the records of the Employer, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with a copy to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Section 12.7 Notice
     . No benefit, right or interest of any person under the Plan will be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, seizure, attachment or legal, equitable or other process or be liable for or subject to, the debts, liabilities or other obligations of such persons, except as otherwise required by law. No Participant, dependent or their beneficiary shall have any right or claim to benefits from the Plan, except as specified in the Plan.
Section 12.8 Alienation
     . A pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, and the singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Section 12.9 Pronouns
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Denbury Resources Inc. has caused these presents to be executed by its duly authorized officers on the 6th day of December, 2000. The undersigned
 
officers hereby certify that the amendment to Section 2.7(a) hereof incorporated into this Plan was approved by the Board.
 
Gareth Roberts Mark Allen Dan Cole Robert Cornelius Brad Cox Ray Dubuisson Tracy Evans Charlie Gibson Phil Rykhoek Barry Schneider
 
Gareth Roberts Mark Allen Robert Cornelius Tracy Evans Phil Rykhoek
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
     The following provisions constitute the terms and conditions of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of Denbury Resources Inc.
     1. . The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock of the Company.
Purpose
     2. .
Definitions
     (a) "" shall mean a person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than ten percent (10%) of the Common Stock of the Company, or a director or officer of the Company.
Affiliate
     (b) "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
     (c) "" shall mean compensation paid, when and if declared in the sole discretion of the Company, as additional compensation over and above the employee's normal salary or hourly rate, as adjusted from time to time.
Bonus
     (d) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (e) "" shall mean the common stock, par value $.001 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
     (f) "" shall mean Denbury Resources Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
     (g) "" for the Offering Period shall mean the earnings paid to the Employee by the Employer for the then in effect calendar tax year which are includible on the Employee's W-2 as taxable wages earned from employment with the Employer, adjusted to include any deductions for the 401(k) and cafeteria (Section 125) plans, and further adjusted to exclude any Bonus or other type of income not a part of the compensation paid to an employee as their normal salary or hourly rate (such as excess life insurance, the value of an automobile, expense reimbursements, any additional earnings resulting from this Plan, etc.).
Compensation
     (h) "" shall mean the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee. Continuous Status as an Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of a leave of absence that meets the requirements of paragraph 11(b).
Continuous Status as an Employee
     (i) "" shall mean the fifteen days prior to each of the four (4) three (3) month calendar quarter periods commencing one (1) day after one (1) Exercise Date and ending with the next Exercise Date.
Election Period
 
     (j) "" shall mean a full-time Employee; provided, further, and without limitation, that a person will be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee on the date (if any) on which such person shall cease to be a full time Employee of the Employer; provided, further, that for all purposes hereof, a person shall cease to be a full time Employee of the Employer on the date, as determined by the Board (or its appointee), on which such person commences a customary work schedule of less than thirty (30) hours per week.
Eligible Employee
     (k) "" shall mean any person who is employed by the Employer and whose wages are subject to withholding for purposes of federal income taxes.
Employee
     (l) "" shall mean the Company and each of its Subsidiaries that has elected to participate in the Plan.
Employer
     (m) "" shall mean the first day of each January, April, July and October, except for the first Enrollment Date which shall be February 1, 1996.
Enrollment Date
     (n) "" shall mean each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
Exercise Date
     (o) "" shall mean each calendar quarter beginning on each Enrollment Date and ending on the immediately following Exercise Date, except for the first Offering Period which shall begin on February 1, 1996 and end on March 31, 1996.
Offering Period
     (p) "" shall mean an Eligible Employee in Continuous Status as an Employee who has been offered the opportunity to purchase Common Stock hereunder and who has elected to participate herein.
Participant
     (q) "" shall mean that separate account maintained hereunder for each Participant.
Payroll Deduction Account
     (r) "" shall mean the Denbury Resources Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Plan
     (s) "" shall mean the Compensation for the prior calendar year for all Eligible Employees who were employed by the Employer during the prior full calendar year. For all Eligible Employees who were not employed during the prior full calendar year by the Employer, this term shall mean the annualized Compensation of the Eligible Employee based on their most recent six months of employment with the Employer.
Prior Year Compensation
     (t) "" shall mean an account to hold shares of the Company's Common Stock maintained at the office of the Employer for the benefit of the Participants of this Plan.
Stock Account
     (u) "" shall mean a corporation, domestic or foreign, of which not less than fifty percent (50%) of the voting shares are held by the Company or a Subsidiary, whether or not such corporation now exists or is hereafter organized or acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary (or as otherwise may be defined in Code Section 424) and any
Subsidiary
 
entity which would be a subsidiary corporation as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code if it were a corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Genesis Energy, Inc. shall not be considered a Subsidiary for purposes of this Plan.
     (v) "" shall mean a consecutive one hundred eighty-three (183) day period, beginning the day of the year on which an Employee commences employment with an Employer or a Subsidiary, during which the Employee is in Continuous Status as an Employee. For purposes of satisfying the Six Months of Service requirement, the time during which a person worked as contract labor for the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall be included in the calculation of the consecutive 183 day period, provided that (i) the work was performed immediately prior to becoming an Employee, (ii) the person worked without interruption or termination of service, and (iii) the person worked a minimum of 40 hours per week.
Six Months of Service
     (w) "" shall mean the agreement by which the Eligible Employees elect to become Participants in this Plan substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
Subscription Agreement
     3. .
Eligibility
     (a) . Any Employee, as defined in paragraph 2, who is employed full-time by an Employer on a given Enrollment Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as an "Eligible Employee," subject to the requirements of paragraph 5.
General Rule
     (b) . Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Employee shall be granted an option to purchase Common Stock under the Plan if the Employee has notified the Employer of their intent to terminate their employment or has terminated their employment for any reason.
Exceptions
     4. . The Plan shall be implemented by Offering Periods with the first Offering Period beginning February 1, 1996. The Board shall have the power to change the duration of the Offering Periods with respect to future offerings without stockholder approval if such change is announced at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering Period to be affected. The Plan shall permit Eligible Employees to elect the level of their participation in the Plan by completing a Subscription Agreement prior to each Offering Period.
Offering Periods
     5. .
Participation
     (a) An Eligible Employee may become a Participant in the Plan by completing a Subscription Agreement, in a form substantially similar to Exhibit A attached to the Plan ("Subscription Agreement"), and filing it with the Company's Payroll Department prior to the applicable Enrollment Date, unless a later time for filing the Subscription Agreement is set by the Board for all Eligible Employees with respect to a given Offering Period.
     (b) An Eligible Employee may waive his right to participate for any Offering Period by declining to authorize a payroll deduction. Such declination must be filed in writing in the time and manner specified by the Company. The filing of a written declination shall result in the Employee's waiver of participation for only the Offering Period to which it
 
relates and shall be irrevocable with respect to such Offering Period. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, an Employee's waiver of participation for a specified Offering Period shall not, in and of itself, adversely impact the right of such Employee to participate in the Plan during any subsequent Offering Periods, provided that an Affiliate must wait for a period of six months after such waiver before participating in a subsequent Offering Period.
     6. .
Payment for Common Stock
     (a) At the time a Participant files his or her Subscription Agreement, such Participant shall either:
     (b) All payroll deductions and cash payments made by a Participant (collectively the "Participant Contribution") shall be credited to his or her Payroll Deduction Account under the Plan. Any Subscription Agreement which attempts to elect to apply more than ten percent (10%) of the Participant's Compensation toward the purchase of Common Stock shall automatically be reduced to limit the amount purchased to not more than ten percent (10%) of that Participant's Compensation.
     (c) A Participant may discontinue or change his or her payroll deductions during the Offering Period by completing and filing with the Payroll Department of the Company a new Subscription Agreement. The discontinuance or change shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible after the Company's receipt of the new Subscription Agreement. If an Affiliate changes their payroll deduction to zero percent, that Affiliate may not participate in the Plan until six months have elapsed.
     7. . On the Exercise Date, the Company will contribute to each Payroll Deduction Account, an amount equal to 75% of the Participant Contribution (or $.75 for every $1.00 contributed by the Participant) during that Offering Period (the "Matching Funds"). These combined funds (the "Total Funds") will be used to purchase Common Stock of the Company as outlined in paragraph 8. However, if for some reason the Total Funds for that Participant are not used to purchase the Company's Common Stock, the Matching Funds, or proportional portion of the Total Funds remaining relating to the Matching Funds, will be returned to the Company. In no circumstance will a Participant receive the Matching Funds other than through the purchase of Common Stock as outlined in paragraph 8.
Matching Contribution
 
     If the Participant is an Affiliate, their Participant Contributions will not be matched until the Plan has received shareholder approval (see paragraph 22). At the first Exercise Date after shareholder approval has been obtained, the Company will match, in the percentage outlined above, the total funds in the Affiliates' Payroll Deduction Account at that time, even though the funds may have been contributed during more than one Offering Period.
     8. .
Grant of Option
     (a) On the Enrollment Date of each Offering Period each Eligible Employee shall be granted an option to purchase on the Exercise Date during such Offering Period up to a number of whole shares of the Company's Common Stock which shall be determined by dividing the total amount in their Payroll Deduction Account on the Exercise Date by the exercise price as calculated in Paragraph 8(b) below subject to the limitations described in paragraphs 8(d) and 13(a) hereof.
     (b) The exercise price per share of the shares offered in a given Offering Period shall be the average of the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock on the each of the ten (10) trading dates immediately preceding the Exercise Date. The fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on a given date shall be the closing price of such shares as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, or reported on such other national exchange as it may, from time to time, be reported on, on such date (or if there shall be no trading on such date, then on the first previous date on which there is such trading), unless the Common Stock ceases to be traded on a national exchange. If the Common Stock ceases to be traded on a national exchange, its fair market value shall be determined by the Board in its discretion.
     (c) For any Participant whose (i) Prior Year Compensation was less than or equal to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000), as adjusted from time to time by the Board, and (ii) who, in the opinion of the Board, is ineligible to receive any stock options under any other plan of the Company, the Employer shall pay the Participant additional income sufficient to pay the social security, medicare, federal income and any state income taxes (calculated using the Participant's payroll withholding rate) which are applicable to the difference between the Participant Contribution during the applicable period and the fair market value of the Common Stock purchased for the Participant on the Exercise Date. For purposes of this subparagraph (c), the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the exercise price as determined in paragraph 8(b).
     9. . The Participant's option for the purchase of Common Stock will be exercised automatically on the Exercise Date of each Offering Period, and the maximum number of full shares subject to such option will be purchased for such Participant at the applicable exercise price with the Total Funds in his or her Payroll Deduction Account, unless prior to such Exercise Date the Participant has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in paragraph 11. During a Participant's lifetime, a Participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by such Participant. A Participant may only exercise an option to purchase shares hereunder if the Participant is employed by the Employer on the Exercise Date and was in a Continuous Status as an Employee during the entire Offering Period. If the Participant is an Affiliate, their options will not be exercised until the Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company in accordance with paragraph 22 hereof.
Exercise of Option
 
     10. . As promptly as practicable after each Exercise Date, the Company shall arrange the delivery to the Stock Account of shares of Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of his or her option. The shares of Common Stock shall be issued in the Participant's name and the Participant shall have certain rights of ownership such as voting and dividend rights, but will not be able to sell, assign or transfer any such shares in the Stock Account until the expiration of 365 days (one year) from the Exercise Date. Until the Plan is approved by the shareholders, the shares will also be subject to the buy-sell provisions of paragraph 22. At any time after one year from the Exercise Date, the Participant may request that their shares, or a portion thereof, in the Stock Account be sent to themselves or to their account at a brokerage firm, but only to the extent that such shares were purchased on an Exercise Date at least one year prior to such request.
Delivery
     Any amount remaining in the Participant's Payroll Deduction Account after an Exercise Date shall remain in the Participant's Deduction Account for the next Offering Period unless requested in writing by the Participant to be refunded to the Participant. The Company shall have no responsibility or liability for any fluctuations in the value of shares in the Stock Account.
     11. .
Withdrawal; Termination of Employment
     (a) A Participant may withdraw all, but not less than all, of the funds credited to his or her Payroll Deduction Account and not yet used toward the exercise of his or her option under the Plan at any time by giving written notice to the Company on a form substantially similar to Exhibit B attached to this Plan. All of the Participant's funds credited to his or her Payroll Deduction Account will be paid to such Participant promptly after receipt of his or her notice of withdrawal. A withdrawal of a Participant's Payroll Deduction Account shall terminate the Participant's participation for the Offering Period in which the withdrawal occurs. No further payroll deductions for the purchase of shares will be made during the Offering Period. A Participant may resume payroll deductions as of the beginning of any subsequent Offering Period by delivering a new Subscription Agreement unless the Participant is an Affiliate, in which case, the Affiliate must wait for a period of six months after the date of withdrawal before they become eligible to resume participation in the Plan.
     (b) Upon termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company for any reason, he or she will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from the Plan and any funds credited to his or her Payroll Deduction Account will be returned to such Participant and his or her option will be canceled; provided, however, that a Participant who goes on a leave of absence shall be permitted to remain in the Plan with respect to an Offering Period which commenced prior to the beginning of such leave of absence. If such Participant is not guaranteed reemployment by contract or statute and the leave of absence exceeds ninety (90) days, such Participant shall be deemed to have terminated employment on the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave of absence. Payroll deductions for a Participant who has been on a leave of absence will resume upon return to work at the same rate as in effect prior to such leave unless changed by such Participant or unless the leave of absence begins in one Offering Period and ends in a subsequent Offering Period, in which case the Participant shall not be permitted to re-enter the Plan until a new Subscription Agreement is filed with respect to an Offering Period which commences after such Participant has returned to work from the leave of absence.
 
     (c) A Participant's withdrawal from one Offering Period will not have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in a different Offering Period or in any similar Plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.
     (d) Termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee of the Company for any reason will not affect when shares are deliverable from the Stock Account.
     12. . No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions or cash or check payments of a Participant in the Plan.
Interest
     13. .
Stock
     (a) The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock which shall be made available for sale under the Plan shall be 3,700,000 shares, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in paragraph 19. Either authorized and unissued shares or issued shares heretofore or hereafter reacquired by the Employer may be made subject to purchase under the Plan, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. Further, if for any reason any purchase of Common Stock under the Plan is not consummated, shares subject to such purchase agreement may be subjected to a new Subscription Agreement under the Plan. If, on a given Exercise Date, the number of shares with respect to which options are to be exercised exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan, the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for purchase in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable. In such event, the Company shall give written notice of such reduction of the number of shares which each Employee shall be allowed to purchase. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Company shall not be obligated to issue Common Stock hereunder if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such issuance would constitute a violation of Federal or state securities laws.
     (b) The Participant will have no interest or voting right in shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised and the shares purchased.
     (c) Shares to be delivered under the Plan will be registered in the name of the Participant but held in the Stock Account for a period of time as specified in paragraph 10. After the requisite holding period, the shares will be delivered to the Participant upon their request. Until the Plan is approved by the shareholders, the shares will also be subject to the buy-sell provisions of paragraph 22.
     14. . The Plan shall be administered by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board. If a committee is appointed by the Board, such committee shall have all of the powers of the Board with respect to the Plan except for those powers set forth in paragraph 20 hereof. Members of the Board who are eligible employees are permitted to participate in the Plan; provided, however, that (i) members of the Board who are eligible Employees may not vote on any matter affecting the administration of the Plan or the grant of any option pursuant to the Plan, and (ii) if a committee is appointed by the Board to administer the Plan, no committee member will be eligible to participate in the Plan. The Board or a committee appointed hereunder shall have the following powers and duties:
Administration
 
     (a) To direct the administration of the Plan in accordance with the provisions herein set forth;
     (b) To adopt rules of procedure and regulations necessary for the administration of the Plan provided the rules are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
     (c) To determine all questions with regard to rights of Employees and Participants under the Plan, including, but not limited to, rights of eligibility of an Employee to participate in the Plan;
     (d) To enforce the terms of the Plan and the rules and regulations it adopts;
     (e) To direct the distribution of the shares of Common Stock purchased hereunder;
     (f) To cause the Employer to maintain such information which the Employer may require for tax or other purposes;
     (g) To engage the service of counsel (who may, if appropriate, be counsel for the Employer) and agents whom it may deem advisable to assist it with the performance of its duties;
     (h) To prescribe procedures to be followed by Participants in electing to participate herein;
     (i) To receive from each Employer and from Employees such information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan;
     (j) To maintain, or cause to be maintained, separate accounts in the name of each Participant to reflect the Participant's Payroll Deduction Account under the Plan; and
     (k) To interpret and construe the Plan.
     15. .
Designation of Beneficiary
     (a) A Participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any shares from the Participant's Payroll Deduction Account under the Plan in the event of such Participant's death subsequent to an Exercise Date on which an option is exercised but prior to the issuance of such shares to the Participant. In addition, a Participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the Participant's Payroll Deduction Account under the Plan in the event of such Participant's death prior to the Exercise Date of the option.
     (b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Participant at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a Participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator of
 
the estate of the Participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the Participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate.
     16. . Neither any monies credited to Participant's Payroll Deduction Account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than as provided in paragraph 15 hereof) by the Participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw funds in accordance with paragraph 11.
Transferability
     17. . All payroll deductions, cash or check received or held by the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such funds.
Use of Funds
     18. . Individual Payroll Deduction Accounts will be maintained for each Participant in the Plan and individual stock accounts will be maintained for each Participant in the Plan with shares of Common Stock in the Stock Account. Statements of account will be given to Participants promptly following an Exercise Date, which statements will set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the number of shares purchased, and the remaining cash balance, if any, relating to the just completed Offering Period and the number of shares and acquisition dates of all shares held by the Employer for the Participant in the Stock Account.
Reports
     19. . If an option under this Plan is exercised subsequent to any stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, exchange of shares or the like, occurring after such option was granted, as a result of which shares of any class shall be issued in respect of the outstanding shares, or shares shall be changed into a different number of the same or another class or classes, the number of shares to which such option shall be applicable and the option price for such shares shall be appropriately adjusted by the Company. Any such adjustment, however, in the Common Stock shall be made without change in the total price applicable to the portion of the Common Stock purchased hereunder which has not been fully paid for, but with a corresponding adjustment, if appropriate, in the price for each share of Common Stock. A similar appropriate adjustment shall be made in the total number of shares of Common Stock available for sale under paragraph 13(a).
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
     In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Offering Period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless the Board determines, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution, that the Participant shall have the right to exercise the option as to all of the optioned stock subject to the Participant's current Subscription Agreement and covered by the amount in the Payroll Deduction Account or by a check from the Participant. If the Board makes an option fully exercisable, in lieu of assumption or substitution in
 
the event of a merger or sale of assets, the option shall be fully exercisable for such period as the Board specifies.
     20. . The Board may at any time and for any reason terminate or amend the Plan. Except as specifically provided in the Plan, no such termination can affect options previously granted, provided that an Offering Period may be terminated by the Board on any Exercise Date if the Board determines that the termination of the Plan is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. Except as specifically provided in the Plan, no amendment may make any change in any option theretofore granted which adversely affects the rights of any Participant. To the extent necessary to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Act") (or any successor rule or provision or any other applicable law or regulation), the Company shall obtain shareholder approval in such manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment or Termination
     21. . All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
Notices
     22. . Commencement of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company within twelve months after the date the Plan is adopted. In the event that the Plan is not approved by the shareholders, the Company will purchase, and the Participant will be required to sell to the Company, all shares issued to date under the Plan from the Participants at a price equal to the total Participant Contribution relating to those shares, not to exceed the then current market value of the shares. This obligation by the Company to buy and the obligation by the Participant to sell will no longer be applicable after shareholder approval is obtained.
Shareholder Approval
     For those Participants who are Affiliates, their options for the purchase of Common Stock will not be exercised until the Plan has received shareholder approval. The Affiliates may accumulate funds in their Payroll Deduction Account beginning with the first Offering Period subject to the normal provisions of the Plan, but the funds will not be matched by the Company, nor will shares of Common Stock be sold to the Affiliates on any Exercise Date until the first Exercise Date after shareholder approval is obtained. If the Plan is not approved by the shareholders, the Affiliates' funds accumulated in their Payroll Deduction Account will be returned to them without any interest or earnings thereon.
     23. . Shares shall not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, applicable securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. As a condition to the exercise of an option and the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise, the Company will require the person exercising such option to hold such shares in the Stock Account for a period of one (1) year from the Exercise Date.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
          As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require the person exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute, such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law.
     24. . The Plan shall become effective February 1, 1996 subject to its approval by the stockholders of the Company as specified in paragraph 22. It shall continue in effect until August 9, 2010 unless sooner terminated under paragraph 20.
Term of Plan
     25. . Nothing contained in this Plan or any modification or amendment to the Plan or in the creation of any Payroll Deduction Account, Stock Account, or the execution of any participation election form, or the issuance of any shares of Stock, shall give any Employee or Participant any right to continue employment, any legal or equitable right against the Employer or Company or any officer, director, or Employee of the Employer or Company, except as expressly provided by the Plan.
No Rights Implied
     26. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan, but shall be fully severable and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.
Severability
     27. . Any notice required to be given herein by the Employer, the Company or the Board shall be deemed delivered, when (a) personally delivered, or (b) placed in the United States mails, in an envelope addressed to the last known address of the person to whom the notice is given.
Notice
     28. . Any person entitled to notice under the Plan may waive the notice.
Waiver of Notice
     29. . The Plan shall be binding upon all persons entitled to purchase Common Stock under the Plan, their respective heirs, legatees, and legal representatives upon the Employer, its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
     30. . The titles and headings of the paragraphs are included for convenience of reference only and are not to be considered in construction of the provisions hereof.
Headings
     31. . All questions arising with respect to the provisions of this Agreement shall be determined by application of the laws of the State of Texas except to the extent Texas law is preempted by Federal statute. The obligation of the Employer to sell and deliver Common Stock under the Plan is subject to applicable laws and to the approval of any governmental authority required in connection with the authorization, issuance, sale or delivery of such Common Stock.
Law
     32. . Neither the members of the Board nor any member of the committee (nor their delegates) shall be liable for any act, omission, or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any right to purchase shares of Common Stock granted under it, and members of the Board and the committee (and their delegatees) shall be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss, damage, or expense (including attorneys' fees, the costs of settling any suit, provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company, and amounts paid in satisfaction
No Liability for Good Faith Determinations
 
of a judgment, except a judgment based on a finding of bad faith) arising therefrom to the full extent permitted by law and under any directors and officers liability or similar insurance coverage that may from time to time be in effect.
     33. . This Plan shall constitute the employee stock purchase plan of each Subsidiary which shall adopt this Plan effective with respect to each such Subsidiary upon the adoption thereof by official action of its board of directors, or by other similar action.
Participating Employers
 
     , this Employee Stock Purchase Plan has been executed this 5th day of January, 1996, effective as of February 1, 1996.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
ATTEST:
Phil Rykhoek, Secretary
 
     I, , have read the attached explanation of the Denbury Resources Inc. (the "Company") Employee Stock Purchase Plan. I have decided: (check one)
                    
                    
Check (a) or (b):
     In order to pay for the shares of Company common stock that I have elected to purchase, I hereby agree to
     I understand that said payroll deductions or cash payment shall be accumulated for the purchase of shares of Common Stock at the applicable purchase price determined in accordance with the Stock Purchase Plan and that the Company will make all required tax withholdings. I further understand that, except as otherwise set forth in the Stock Purchase Plan, shares will be purchased for me automatically on the Exercise Date of each Offering Period unless I otherwise withdraw from the Offering Period or the Stock Purchase Plan.
     I understand that if my employment with the Company terminates for any reason prior to the next Exercise Date that all amounts credited to me in the Payroll Deduction Account will be refunded as soon as administratively feasible and my participation in the Stock Purchase Plan shall immediately terminate.
     I understand that I must leave any shares of Common Stock of the Company acquired pursuant to this Plan in the Stock Account for a period of one (1) year from the Exercise Date, at which time I may request that the shares be delivered to me to do with as I may desire. The Company's custody of my shares during this one year period is for the sole purpose of enforcing the nontransferability of the shares. I understand and release the Company, its agents and employees for any liability relating to value fluctuations in my shares.
 
     I have received a copy of the Company's most recent prospectus on Form S-8 that describes the Stock Purchase Plan and a copy of the complete Employee Stock Purchase Plan. I understand that my participation in the Stock Purchase Plan is in all respects subject to the terms of the Plan. I hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the Stock Purchase Plan. The effectiveness of this Subscription Agreement is dependent upon my eligibility to participate in the Stock Purchase Plan.
     In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my beneficiary to receive all payments and shares due me and not yet issued under the Stock Purchase Plan (shares already issued but held in the Stock Account are subject to this beneficiary designation as these shares are already in your name and subject to your will):
not
 
By signing this form, I hereby notify the Company that I withdraw from the Offering Period, effective upon receipt of this Notice.
Pay to me as promptly as possible all amounts in my Payroll Deduction Account. I understand and agree that by withdrawing from the Offering Period no further payroll deductions will be made for the purchase of shares in such Offering Period and that I may not participate in another Offering Period unless I deliver to the Company a new Subscription Agreement during the next Election Period. I further understand and agree that no further payroll deductions may be made for the purchase of shares in the Offering Period, nor will any shares be issued on my behalf at the Exercise Date and that any previously contributed funds will be returned to me as soon as administratively feasible, without any interest or matching funds thereon.
Name and Address of Participant:
Signature:
Date:
                    
                    
                    


