FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20080905170919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 29, 2008, the principal wholly-owned operating subsidiary of Denbury Resources Inc. (NYSE: DNR), Denbury Onshore, LLC, exercised its option to purchase from a subsidiary of Venoco, Inc. (NYSE: VQ) the Hastings Field near Houston, Texas, a potential tertiary oil field. The Option Agreement that provides the terms for the purchase of these assets upon exercise of the option was entered into by the parties on November 1, 2006.
The purchase will include all of Venoco's interest in Hastings Field, less a 2% override and a 25% reversionary interest following payout, as defined in the Option Agreement. The purchase price is yet to be determined and is subject to negotiation or prescribed contractual formula as determined by an independent engineering firm as discussed in more detail below. Venoco has a working interest of approximately 89% in the West Hastings Unit and near 100% in East Hastings Field.
Venoco has the option to receive either cash or a production payment for the purchase of the assets. The purchase price is to be determined by mutual agreement between the two companies, or failing agreement by December 1, 2008, by following a prescribed contractual formula based upon the present discounted value (PV10 Value) of the field's proved reserves as determined by the independent engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton, using year-end 2008 NYMEX forward strip prices for crude oil for the next five years and then the average price of the fifth year thereafter, and actual operating expenses for the prior 12 months. The acquisition will be effective January 1, 2009 and is expected to close in early February 2009. In conjunction with Denbury exercising its purchase option at this time, Venoco has agreed to extend the deadlines for required capital expenditures and commencement of CO injections (as detailed below), and certain other contractual requirements, by one year from the original dates included in the Option Agreement.
2
Denbury is committed to make capital expenditures for development of the West Hastings Unit CO flood of $178,674,000 in the aggregate, with minimum cumulative amounts to be spent by the following dates:
2
If Denbury fails to spend the required amounts by the above dates, Denbury is required to make a cash payment equal to 10% of the cumulative shortfall at each applicable date.
Further, Denbury is committed to injecting at least an average of 50 MMcf/day of CO (total of purchased and recycled) in the West Hastings Unit for the 90 day period prior to January 1, 2013. If such injections do not occur, Denbury shall either (1) relinquish its rights to initiate (or continue) tertiary operations and reassign to Venoco all assets previously purchased for the value of such assets at that time based upon the discounted value of the field's proved reserves using a
2
 
20% discount rate, or (2) make an additional payment of $20 million in January 2013, less any payments made for failure to meet the capital spending requirements as of December 31, 2012, and $30 million for each subsequent year (less amounts paid for capital expenditure shortfalls) until the CO2 injection in the Hastings Field equals or exceeds the minimum required injection rate.
We plan to fund the acquisition with proceeds from a proposed sale of our Barnett Shale properties in North Texas, or if such properties are not sold, with bank or other types of debt financing. Any bank financing will likely require an increase in our bank credit line.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release Released at 7:30 AM CDT
     DALLAS  September 2, 2008  Denbury Resources Inc. (NYSE symbol: DNR), announced today that it has exercised its option to purchase from a subsidiary of Venoco, Inc. (NYSE symbol: VQ) the Hastings Field near Houston, Texas, a potential tertiary oil field to be supplied by the Green Pipeline which is underway. The purchase price is to be determined by mutual agreement between the two companies, or failing agreement by December 1, 2008, by following a prescribed contractual formula based upon the present discounted value (PV10 Value) of the field's proved reserves as determined by the independent engineering firm of DeGolyer and MacNaughton, using year-end 2008 strip prices. The acquisition will be effective January 1, 2009 and is expected to close in early February 2009. Venoco has agreed to extend the deadlines for capital expenditures, commencement of CO injections and certain other contractual requirements by one year in consideration of Denbury exercising the option in 2008.
2
     Denbury Resources Inc. () is a growing independent oil and natural gas company. The Company is the largest oil and natural gas operator in Mississippi, owns the largest reserves of CO used for tertiary oil recovery east of the Mississippi River, and holds significant operating acreage in the Barnett Shale play near Fort Worth, Texas, onshore Louisiana and Alabama, and properties in Southeast Texas. The Company's goal is to increase the value of acquired properties through tertiary recovery operations, combined with a combination of exploitation, drilling and proven engineering extraction practices.
www.denbury.com
2
Gareth Roberts, President and CEO, 972-673-2000 Phil Rykhoek, Chief Financial Officer, 972-673-2000 www.denbury.com


