FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20100205202052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
Attached is a consent from Miller and Lents, Ltd. with respect to its report dated January 20, 2010 regarding Encore Acquisition Company's Reserves and Future Net Revenues as of December 31, 2009 set forth in Denbury Resources Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 2, 2010.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following exhibit is furnished in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     The firm of Miller and Lents, Ltd. hereby consents to the use of its name, and to the reference to its report dated January 20, 2010 regarding Encore Acquisition Company's Reserves and Future Net Revenues as of December 31, 2009, in Denbury Resources Inc.'s Current Report filed on Form 8-K with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The Registration Statement contains references to certain reports prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd. for the exclusive use of Encore Acquisition Company. The analysis, conclusions, and methods contained in the reports are based upon information that was in existence at the time the reports were rendered and Miller and Lents, Ltd. has not updated and undertakes no duty to update anything contained in the reports. While the reports may be used as a descriptive resource, investors are advised that Miller and Lents, Ltd. has not verified information provided by others except as specifically noted in the reports, and Miller and Lents, Ltd. makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of such information. Moreover, the conclusions contained in such reports are based on assumptions that Miller and Lents, Ltd. believed were reasonable at the time of their preparation and that are described in such reports in reasonable detail. However, there are a wide range on uncertainties and risks that are outside of the control of Miller and Lents, Ltd. which may impact these assumptions, including but not limited to unforeseen market changes, actions of governments or individuals, natural events, economic changes, and changes of laws and regulations or interpretation of laws and regulations.
Houston, Texas February 1, 2010


