FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20100202165142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e 4(c))
o
 
 
 
Explanatory Note:
The information filed hereby is an excerpt from the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed by Denbury Resources Inc. (the "Company") with the SEC on February 2, 2010, registering $1,000,000,000 in senior subordinated notes due 2020. This filing is being made to accommodate the incorporation by reference of the information contained herein into certain future registration statements to be filed by the Company on Form S-3 and existing and future registration statements of the Company filed or to be filed on Form S-8.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Company is hereby filing certain pro forma financial and reserves information relating to the merger of Encore Acquisition Company ("Encore") with and into the Company pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 31, 2009. The following unaudited combined pro forma financial and reserves information of the Company is attached:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed or furnished in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined financial information is based on the historical consolidated financial statements of Denbury Resources Inc. ("Denbury") and Encore Acquisition Company ("Encore"), adjusted to reflect the proposed acquisition of Encore by Denbury and the related financing transactions. Denbury's historical consolidated financial statements have also been adjusted to give effect to the disposal of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets as presented in Note 4 to the unaudited pro forma combined financial information.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet gives effect to the acquisition of Encore by Denbury, the related financing transactions and the disposition by Denbury of its remaining 40% interest in its Barnett Shale natural gas assets (see Note 4), as if they had occurred on September 30, 2009. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations combine the results of operations of Denbury and Encore for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations give effect to the following events as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008:
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations exclude the impact of nonrecurring expenses Denbury and Encore will incur as a result of the acquisition and related financings, primarily non-capitalizable banking and legal fees.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the of Denbury for the year ended December 31, 2008, the of Denbury for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and Denbury's filed with the SEC on February 2, 2010 containing, among other things, Encore's historical consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for each of the three years ended 2008, 2007, and 2006, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 and as of September 30, 2009 and 2008 are incorporated by reference into this prospectus.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
Form 8-K
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is for informational purposes only and is not intended to represent or to be indicative of the combined results of operations or financial position that Denbury or the pro forma combined company would have reported had the Encore acquisition been completed as of the dates set forth in this unaudited pro forma combined financial information and should not be taken as indicative of Denbury's future combined results of operations or financial position. The actual results may differ significantly from that reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, differences between the assumptions used to prepare the unaudited pro forma combined financial information and actual results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2009, Denbury and Encore entered into a definitive merger agreement which contemplates the merger of Encore with and into Denbury, with Denbury surviving the merger.
 
Under the merger agreement, Encore stockholders will receive $50.00 per share for each share of Encore common stock, comprised of $15.00 in cash and $35.00 in Denbury common stock subject to both an election feature and a collar mechanism on the stock portion of the consideration. The final number of Denbury shares to be issued will be adjusted based on the volume-weighted average price of Denbury common stock on the NYSE for the trading period ending on the second day prior to closing. Based on the collar mechanism, if Denbury common stock trades between $13.29 and $16.91, the Encore stockholders electing to receive a mix of cash and stock and non-electing stockholders will receive $15.00 in cash and between 2.0698 and 2.6336 shares of Denbury common stock for each of their shares of Encore common stock, but not higher or lower than these share amounts if Denbury common stock trades outside this range. In the aggregate, assuming 55.5 million shares of Encore common stock are outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger (the number of Encore outstanding common shares at January 13, 2010) and including approximately $56.2 million in cash payments to Encore stock option holders, this represents aggregate merger consideration of approximately $889.3 million in cash and between 115 and 146 million shares of Denbury common stock. If Denbury common stock trades outside of this range, the number of Denbury common shares that will be issued to effect the acquisition will be fixed at the minimum (approximately 115 million Denbury common shares) or maximum (approximately 146 million Denbury common shares) as determined by the collar mechanism. The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2009 assumes that Encore stockholders will receive 2.232 shares of Denbury common stock for each share of Encore common stock (approximately 124.0 million common shares in the aggregate), the ratio of which was determined using the volume-weighted average price of Denbury common stock of $15.68 per share for the trading period ending on January 13, 2010.
twenty-day
twenty-day
 
Denbury received a financing commitment letter from J.P. Morgan and JPMorgan Chase subject to certain funding conditions, for a proposed new $1.6 billion senior secured revolving credit facility with a term of four years ("Newly Committed Credit Facility") and a $1.25 billion bridge facility ("Bridge Facility") that will be available to the extent Denbury does not secure alternate financing prior to the end of the bridge take-down period. The unaudited pro forma combined financial information assumes that Denbury does not borrow under the Bridge Facility and that only a portion of the Newly Committed Credit Facility has been drawn upon to effect the transaction described herein, and that the proceeds from the portions drawn, along with $400 million of the net proceeds of Denbury's     % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the "New Senior Subordinated Notes"), will be used as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet at September 30, 2009 has been prepared to give effect to the merger and the related financing transactions as if they had occurred on September 30, 2009 and the unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations have been prepared to give effect to the merger and the related financing transactions as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information includes adjustments to conform Encore's accounting for oil and gas properties to the full cost method. Denbury follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties while Encore follows the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Certain costs that are capitalized under the full cost method are expensed under the successful efforts method. These costs consist primarily of unsuccessful exploration drilling costs, geological and geophysical costs, delay rental on leases, abandonment costs and general and administrative expenses directly related to exploration and development activities. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, proved property acquisition costs are amortized on a basis over total proved reserves and costs of wells, related equipment and facilities are depreciated over the life of the proved developed reserves that will utilize those capitalized assets on a basis. Under the full cost method of accounting, property acquisition costs, costs of wells, related equipment and facilities and future development costs are included in a single full cost pool, which is amortized on a basis over total proved reserves.
unit-of-production
field-by-field
unit-of-production
 
Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations, which are included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information, also include the pro forma effects of the disposal of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets that occurred during 2009. Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet includes the pro forma effect of the sale of the remaining 40% of Denbury's Barnett Shale natural gas assets as if the sale occurred on September 30, 2009. Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations include the pro forma effects of the sale of 60%, and subsequent sale of 40%, of Denbury's Barnett Shale natural gas assets as if the sales occurred on January 1, 2008. Denbury's disposal of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets is unrelated to the
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
Encore acquisition. The pro forma effects of these transactions are presented in Note 4 to the unaudited pro forma combined financial information.
 
Effect of Modified Assumption on Repurchase of Encore Senior Subordinated Notes
 
Each of Encore's four series of senior subordinated notes has a change in control put option at 101% of par value, which would require Denbury to offer to repurchase, at the option of the noteholder, the notes at 101% of par value within a specified period after consummation of the merger. Three of these series, Encore's 6% Senior Subordinated Notes, its 6.25% Senior Subordinated Notes and its 7.25% Senior Subordinated Notes (collectively "Encore's Old Notes") with an aggregate par value of $600 million, have traded at prices below 101% of par value both before and since announcement of the merger. Because it would be economically advantageous to the noteholders to do so, Denbury expects the holders of all of Encore's Old Notes to tender their notes pursuant to a tender offer or change of control offer.
 
If Denbury were to assume exercise of their put options by the holders of all of Encore's Old Notes requiring Denbury to tender their notes pursuant to a tender offer or change of control offer, and the repurchase is funded through proceeds from the sale of the New Senior Subordinated Notes, it would (i) incrementally increase pro forma interest expense by an additional amount of approximately $11 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and $15 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, and (ii) increase Denbury's pro forma long-term debt as of September 30, 2009 by approximately $17 million.
 
 
The acquisition of Encore will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Denbury will receive carryover tax basis in Encore's assets and liabilities because the merger will not be a taxable transaction under the United States Internal Revenue Code. The sum of the estimated fair value of consideration transferred and the estimated fair value of the noncontrolling interest of ENP was allocated based on a preliminary assessment of the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at September 30, 2009 using currently available information. Denbury expects to finalize its allocation of the purchase consideration as soon after completion of the proposed acquisition as practicable. The final purchase price allocation and the resulting effect on results of operations and financial position may significantly differ from the pro forma amounts included herein.
 
The purchase price allocation is preliminary and is subject to change due to several factors, including:
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
 
The consideration to be transferred, fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and resulting goodwill was calculated as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the acquisition method of accounting, the fair value of shares issued is determined using the closing price of Denbury common stock at the acquisition date. As discussed in Note 1, "Basis of Presentation," the number of shares that Denbury will issue in the merger transaction is dependent upon the volume-weighted average price of Denbury stock for the period ending on the second day prior to closing. Therefore, the price of Denbury common stock used to determine the number of shares that will be issued as consideration will likely be different than the price of Denbury's stock used to determine the fair value of consideration transferred for accounting purposes. The pro forma purchase price allocation assumes Encore stockholders will receive 2.232 shares of Denbury common stock for each share of Encore common stock (124.0 million common shares in the aggregate), the ratio of which was determined using the volume-weighted average price of Denbury's common stock for the period ending January 13, 2010 of $15.68. The purchase price allocation also assumes the closing price of Denbury's common stock on the closing date is $15.72, which was determined using the closing price of Denbury common stock on January 13, 2010. Assuming Denbury issues 124.0 million common shares to effect the Encore acquisition, a $1.00 increase (decrease) in the closing price of Denbury common stock on the closing date would increase (decrease) goodwill by approximately $124.0 million. If Denbury's common stock trades at or below the low-end or at or greater than the high end of the collar ($13.29 minimum and $16.91 maximum) and the acquisition date fair value of Denbury's common stock is $15.72, the impact on the unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet would be as follows:
twenty-day
twenty-day
twenty-day
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
Additionally, the unaudited pro forma combined net income (loss) per common share would be as follows:
 
 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred plus the estimated fair value of the noncontrolling interest of ENP over the acquisition-date estimated fair value of the assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
 
The fair value of the noncontrolling interest of ENP was calculated using the ENP closing common unit price on January 13, 2010 of $20.34. If ENP's common unit price were to increase (decrease) by $1.00, goodwill would increase (decrease) by $24.8 million.
 
Pro Forma Adjustments to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet
 
(a) Represents pro forma adjustments to:
 
 
(b) Represents the new deferred financing costs attributable to the Newly Committed Credit Facility and the Bridge Facility.
 
(c) Represents the repayment of a portion of Encore's credit facilities ($180.0 million).
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
(d) Represents Denbury's borrowings under the Newly Committed Credit Facility and the Bridge Facility. Assumes Denbury's pro forma debt will consist of the following (in thousands):
 
 
 
(e) Represents the elimination of Encore's historical equity in connection with the acquisition method of accounting.
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
(f) Represents the increase in Denbury's common stock resulting from the issuance of Denbury shares to Encore stockholders to effect the acquisition as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
(g) Represents the estimated $28.1 million of transaction costs incurred by Denbury and Encore not reflected in the September 30, 2009 balance sheets, including estimated banking fees ($25.4 million) and estimated legal and accounting fees ($2.7 million) that are not capitalizable as part of the transaction. These costs are reflected in the unaudited pro forma balance sheet as a reduction of equity as the costs will be expensed by Denbury at the acquisition date.
 
 
Adjustments (a)  (h) to the Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008 include reclassifications required to conform Encore's revenue and expense items to Denbury's presentation as follows:
 
(a) Represents the reclassification of Encore's oil and natural gas product sales to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(b) Represents the reclassification of marketing revenue and gains on sale of other assets to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(c) Represents the reclassification of the impairment charge related to pipe inventory to "Lease operating expense" to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(d) Represents the reclassification of severance taxes to "Production taxes and marketing expense" and the transfer of ad valorem taxes to "Lease operating expense" to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(e) Represents the reclassification of transportation costs to "Production taxes and marketing expenses" to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(f) Represents the reclassification of marketing expenses to "Production taxes and marketing expenses" to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(g) Represents the reclassification of franchise taxes and bad debt expense to "General and administrative" expenses to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
(h) Represents the reclassification of accretion expense on Encore's asset retirement obligations to "Depletion, depreciation and amortization" expense to conform to Denbury's presentation.
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
Adjustments (i) - (o) to the Statements of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008 include pro forma adjustments to reflect the merger, related financing transactions and the conversion of Encore's method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties from the successful efforts method of accounting to the full cost method of accounting.
 
(i) Represents the capitalization of unsuccessful exploration costs, geological and geophysical costs and delay rentals attributable to the development of oil and gas properties in accordance with the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties.
 
(j) Represents the change in depreciation, depletion and amortization primarily resulting from the pro forma calculation of the combined entity's depletion expense under the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties. The pro forma depletion adjustment utilizes a depletion rate of $15.14 per BOE for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and $13.54 per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
(k) Represents the decrease to general and administrative expense due to the reduction in ongoing executive salaries. Encore's named executive officers will not be retained as employees of Denbury following the effective time of the merger.
 
(l) Represents the adjustment to historical interest expense on debt to be retired and interest expense on the Newly Committed Credit Facility and the New Senior Subordinated Notes as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Pro forma borrowings at September 30, 2009 under the Newly Committed Credit Facility are $826.6 million. Interest on the Newly Committed Credit Facility is variable at LIBOR plus 2%-3%. Pro forma interest expense under the Newly Committed Credit Facility assumes an interest rate of 2.72% which was calculated using LIBOR rates at January 13, 2010. Each 1/8% fluctuation in the credit facility interest rate would change pro forma interest expense by approximately
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
$0.8 million and $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively.
 
Pro forma interest expense assumes an interest rate of 8.50% on $400 million of New Senior Subordinated Notes. Each 1/8% fluctuation in the interest rate on the New Senior Subordinated Notes would change pro forma interest expense by approximately $0.4 million and $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively.
 
If Denbury were to assume exercise of their contractual put option by holders of all of Encore's Old Notes at 101% of par value and Denbury's repurchase of all $600 million of those notes, funded through the remainder of the net proceeds from the sale of the New Senior Subordinated Notes, interest expense would increase by approximately $11 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 and approximately $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 (see Note 1,
Basis of Presentation  Effect of Modified Assumption on Repurchase of Encore Senior Subordinated Notes).
 
(m) Represents the income tax effect of pro forma adjustments (i)  (l) at Denbury's estimated combined statutory tax rate of 37.5%. The effective tax rate of the combined company could be significantly different (either higher or lower) depending on post-merger activities.
 
(n) Represents the allocable portion of adjustments (i) and (j) to earnings relating to the noncontrolling interest of ENP.
 
(o) Represents additional shares of Denbury common stock estimated to be issued to Encore stockholders at the acquisition date.
 
 
Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations included in the unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet and statements of operations give effect to the following transactions:
 
In May 2009, Denbury entered into an agreement to sell 60% of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets to Talon Oil and Gas LLC ("Talon"), a privately held company, for $270 million (before closing adjustments). The effective date under the agreement was June 1, 2009, and consequently operating net revenues after June 1, net of capital expenditures, along with any other purchase price adjustments, were adjustments to the selling price. In June 2009, Denbury completed approximately three-quarters of the sale and closed the remaining portion of the sale in July 2009. Combined net proceeds were $259.8 million (after closing adjustments and net of $8.1 million for natural gas swaps transferred in the sale). Denbury used the net proceeds from the sale to repay bank debt. Denbury did not record a gain or loss on the sale in accordance with the full cost method of accounting.
May 2009 Sale of 60% of Denbury's Barnett Shale Natural Gas Assets.
 
In December 2009, Denbury closed the sale of its remaining 40% interest in Barnett Shale
December 2009 Sale of Remaining 40% of Denbury's Barnett Shale Natural Gas Assets.
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
natural gas assets to Talon for $210 million (before closing adjustments). The effective date under the agreement was December 1, 2009. The proceeds of this sale were used to reduce outstanding bank debt. Denbury does not expect to record a gain or loss on the sale in accordance with the full cost method of accounting. Further, the sale was structured as a deferred like-kind exchange in conjunction with Denbury's December 2009 purchase of Conroe Field in order to defer most of the tax impacts of the sale.
 
Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet gives effect to the sale of 40% of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets as if it occurred on September 30, 2009. The effect of the May 2009 sale of 60% of Denbury's Barnett Shale natural gas assets is included in Denbury's historical condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2009 as the sale occurred prior to September 30, 2009.
 
Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations include the effect of the sale of 60%, and subsequent sale of 40%, of its Barnett Shale natural gas assets as if each occurred on January 1, 2008.
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
 
Notes (continued)
 
 
 
Denbury's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations include the following adjustments:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
The following tables set forth summary pro forma information with respect to Denbury's and Encore's pro forma combined estimated net proved and proved developed oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2009. This pro forma information gives effect to the merger as if it occurred on December 31, 2009. Future exploration, exploitation and development expenditures, as well as future commodity prices and service costs, will affect the reserve volumes attributable to the acquired properties and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
 
Estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2009
 


