FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20111004192305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2011, Denbury Resources Inc. (the Company) announced the resignation of Ronald T. Evans from his positions as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, to become effective October 7, 2011.
In connection with his resignation, Mr. Evans and the Company entered into an Officer Resignation Agreement (the Agreement) which provides for Mr. Evans to be paid  in cash on the Effective Date and for him to be employed on a part-time basis related to engineering and technical matters until April 1, 2014, at a salary of $48,000 per year.  Henceforth, Mr. Evans will be ineligible to receive future awards under the Companys equity compensation plans or to participate in the Companys Severance Protection Plan. Assuming his continued part-time employment by the Company until April 1, 2014, Mr. Evans will be entitled to retain his currently existing, unvested equity awards and cash performance award granted under the Companys 2004 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan that vest prior to that date, all according to the existing terms and conditions of those awards. Subject to the specific terms of the Agreement, Mr. Evans has agreed not to compete with the Company nor solicit Company employees through April 1, 2014.
$1.9 million
The Company does not plan to immediately name another Chief Operating Officer. The operational aspects of the Company will continue to be managed by the Companys two operations Senior Vice Presidents, Robert Cornelius, Sr. Vice President of CO Operations, and Craig McPherson, Sr. Vice President of Production Operations, with overall oversight responsibility to be assumed by Phil Rykhoek, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, who will also assume the title of President of the Company.
2
The foregoing description of the Agreement is a summary only.  The Agreement will be filed as an exhibit to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


