FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20120112155030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02(d)  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective January 6, 2012, Laura A. Sugg of Katy, Texas was appointed to the Board of Directors (the Board) of Denbury Resources Inc. (the Company), bringing the number of Denbury directors to eleven.
 
is an independent consultant with 29 years of oil and gas industry experience.  Ms. Sugg currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Williams Companies, Inc. (NYSE: WMB) and Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) and previously served on the Board of Directors of Mariner Energy and Huber Energy.  Ms. Sugg is a retired senior executive of ConocoPhillips (NYSE: COP), serving over 20 years in diverse roles of increasing responsibility, .  In this role, Ms. Sugg was responsible for growth of ConocoPhillips operations in Australia and East Timor and for their operational profitability.  Ms. Sugg has a bachelors degree in chemical engineering from Oklahoma State University and is a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and the Oklahoma State University Engineering Advisory Board.
Ms. Sugg
last serving as President of the Australasia Division
 
On January 6, 2012, following her appointment to the Board, Ms. Sugg was granted shares of restricted stock which will vest on January 6, 2013.  Ms. Sugg is also entitled to participate in the Director Compensation Plan, which allows each non-employee director to make a quarterly election regarding whether to receive compensation in cash or in shares of Company common stock.
Ms. Suggs committee appointments will be determined at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting in March.  
7
,586
 
A copy of the press release regarding Ms. Suggs appointment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Released at 7:30 a.m. CST
PLANO, TX  January 9, 2012  Denbury Resources Inc. (NYSE: DNR) (Denbury or the Company) today announced the appointment of Laura A. Sugg, of Katy, Texas, to its Board of Directors (Board) effective January 6, 2012. The appointment of Ms. Sugg to the Board increases the number of Denbury directors to eleven. Ms. Suggs committee appointments will be determined at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting in March.
Laura Sugg is an independent consultant with 29 years of oil and gas industry experience. Ms. Sugg currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Williams Companies, Inc. (NYSE: WMB) and Williams Partners L.P. (NYSE: WPZ) and previously served on the Board of Directors of Mariner Energy and Huber Energy. Ms. Sugg is a retired senior executive of ConocoPhillips (NYSE: COP), serving over 20 years in diverse roles of increasing responsibility, last serving as President of the Australasia Division. In this role, Ms. Sugg was responsible for growth of ConocoPhillips operations in Australia and East Timor and for their operational profitability. Ms. Sugg has a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Oklahoma State University and is a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and the Oklahoma State University Engineering Advisory Board.
Wieland Wettstein, Chairman of the Board, said, "I am very pleased to announce the appointment of Laura to our Board. Her diverse experience and accomplishments make her an outstanding addition and will complement the skills and experience of our Board. I look forward to the leadership and perspectives that Laura will bring to the Board as we continue to grow and execute our strategy.
Denbury Resources Inc. () is a growing independent oil and natural gas company. The Company is the largest oil and natural gas operator in both Mississippi and Montana, owns the largest reserves of COused for tertiary oil recovery east of the Mississippi River, and holds significant operating acreage in the Rockies and Gulf Coast regions. The Company's goal is to increase the value of acquired properties through a combination of exploitation, drilling and proven engineering extraction practices, with its most significant emphasis relating to tertiary recovery operations.
www.denbury.com
2
For further information contact:
DENBURY RESOURCES INC.
Phil Rykhoek, Chief Executive Officer, 972-673-2000
Mark Allen, Sr. VP and Chief Financial Officer, 972-673-2000
Jack Collins, Executive Director, Investor Relations, 972-673-2000
www.denbury.com
 


