FILE:DNR/DNR-8K-20121226080253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
On December 6, 2012, Denbury Resources Inc. (Denbury or the Company) filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the Original Form 8-K) regarding Denbury Onshore, LLC (Denbury Onshore), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Denbury, entering into a Closing Agreement and Amendment dated November 30, 2012 (the Closing Agreement), which amended the Exchange Agreement dated September 19, 2012 (as amended, the Exchange Agreement) among Denbury Onshore, Exxon Mobil Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (collectively, ExxonMobil) in order to provide for the closing in two phases of the Bakken sale and asset exchange described in the Exchange Agreement (the Exchange Transaction).  This Amendment No.1 supplements the Original Form 8-K to report that the second and final phase of the closing of the Exchange Transaction was consummated on December 21, 2012.
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Denbury entered into a Second Closing Agreement and Amendment dated December 21, 2012 (the Second Closing Agreement), further amending the Exchange Agreement to provide for a second closing pursuant to which Denbury would acquire, in exchange for the 17.5% interest in its Bakken area assets which Denbury retained in the first closing, approximately one-third of ExxonMobils CO reserves in its LaBarge Field in Wyoming, plus residual cash balances, after preliminary closing adjustments.  The discussion in Item 2.01 below is incorporated into this Item 1.01.
2
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.01  Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
With completion of the second and final phase of the previously announced Exchange Transaction on December 21, 2012, Denbury has now transferred all of its Bakken area assets to ExxonMobil in exchange for approximately $1.3 billion of cash (which includes preliminary closing adjustments) along with ExxonMobils operating interests in Webster Field in Texas and Hartzog Draw Field in Wyoming and approximately one-third of ExxonMobils CO reserves in its LaBarge Field in Wyoming.  As indicated in the Original Form 8-K, the Company is continuing to seek possible acquisitions in which proceeds from the Exchange Transaction could be utilized in a like-kind exchange transaction to reduce the amount of federal income tax payable due to such transaction.  Accordingly, a substantial portion of the cash proceeds received in the Exchange Transaction remains in qualified trust accounts to fund any such future potential asset purchases.
2
A copy of the Second Closing Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, and a copy of the December 24, 2012 press release announcing the second closing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, which exhibits are incorporated in this Amendment No. 1 by reference.  The foregoing description of the Second Closing Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of that agreement.
As provided in General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished in Exhibit 99.1 hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, except as shall be expressly provided by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished in accordance with the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
This Second Closing Agreement and Amendment (this ) is entered into on December 21, 2012, by and among Denbury Onshore, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), XTO Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (), and Exxon Mobil Corporation, a New Jersey corporation (, and collectively with XTO Energy, ), in connection with the Closing of the transactions contemplated by that certain Exchange Agreement dated September 19, 2012, by and among DRI, XTO Energy and ExxonMobil, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 to Exchange Agreement dated November 20, 2012, as amended by that certain Closing Agreement and Amendment dated November 30, 2012 (as so amended, the ), to clarify and agree upon the matters set forth below.  DRI and XTO are sometimes referred to in this Agreement collectively as the  and individually as a .  The Parties hereby agree as follows:
Agreement
DRI
XTO Energy
ExxonMobil
XTO
Exchange Agreement
Parties
Party
 
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
 
Section 1.1
 
.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein and defined in the Exchange Agreement shall have the meanings provided in the Exchange Agreement.
Definitions
 
 
Section 2.1
 
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Exchange Agreement, the Parties acknowledge and agree that at the Second Closing, in each case in accordance with, and subject to, the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement:
General
 
(a)
 
the Retained Interests are being transferred, conveyed and assigned to ExxonMobil by DRI;
 
(b)
 
an undivided fifty percent (50%) of all of DRIs right, title and interest in and to the Additional Wells described as Additional Deep Wells on (the ) is being transferred, conveyed and assigned to XTO Energy by DRI;
Schedule A
Additional Deep Wells
 
(c)
 
an undivided fifty percent (50%) of all of DRIs right, title and interest in and to the Additional Deep Wells is being transferred, conveyed and assigned to ExxonMobil by DRI; and
 
(d)
 
all of DRIs right, title and interest in and to the Additional Wells described as Additional Shallow Wells on is being transferred, conveyed and assigned to ExxonMobil by DRI.
Schedule A
 
Section 2.2
 
.  The Second Closing of the transactions contemplated by the Exchange Agreement shall be deemed to occur on, and the Second Closing Date shall be, December 21, 2012.  In addition, and for the avoidance of doubt, the Effective Time of such transactions shall be 7:00 a.m. local time where the Assets are located on July 1, 2012.
Second Closing
 
 
Section 3.1
 
.  DRI has delivered to XTO and the Parties have agreed upon a detailed breakdown of the Upward Adjustments and Downward Adjustments attributable to the Retained Interests and the Additional Wells, which breakdown is based on the amount provided in the applicable Estimated Settlement Statement (except with respect to any amounts related to Title Defects and Title Benefits affecting such Assets, which treatment is further described herein).  
Calculation of Second Closing Additional Consideration Amount
 
 
- 1 -
 
 
The calculation of the Closing Additional Consideration Amount in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Exchange Agreement and below is as follows:
Section 3.3
 
Section 3.2
 
.  As more clearly specified in the wire instructions provided by DRI to XTO prior to the date hereof, the Parties agree that, at the Second Closing,ExxonMobil wired $25,729,867.94 to DRI.
Delivery of Aggregate Amount to be Paid to DRI at Second Closing
 
 
Section 3.3
 
.  Pursuant to (a) that certain Assignment of Overriding Royalty on CO, dated as of December 21, 2012, by and between DRI, as Assignee and ExxonMobil, as Assignor (the ), (b) that certain Carbon Dioxide Delivery and Balancing Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2012, by and between DRI and ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing Company (), a division of ExxonMobil (the ) and (c) that certain Letter Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2012, by and between DRI and ExxonMobil Gas & Power (the  and, together with the LaBarge Assignment and the LaBarge DBA, the ), DRI has agreed to purchase from ExxonMobil an overriding royalty interest in those certain carbon dioxide assets in LaBarge, Wyoming, as more particularly described in the LaBarge Agreements (the ).  The Parties hereby acknowledge and agree that an amount equal to $310,000,000, the purchase price to be paid by DRI to ExxonMobil for the LaBarge Interest under the LaBarge Agreements (the ), is being subtracted from the Second Closing Additional Consideration Amount pursuant to hereof in satisfaction of DRIs obligation to pay the LaBarge Purchase Price under the LaBarge Agreements.
DRI LaBarge Assets Acquisition
2
LaBarge Assignment
ExxonMobil Gas & Power
LaBarge DBA
LaBarge Letter Agreement
LaBarge Agreements
LaBarge Interest
LaBarge Purchase Price
Section 3.1
 
Section 3.4
 
.
Title Matters
 
(a)
 
.  The Parties hereby acknowledge, notwithstanding anything contained in the Exchange Agreement to the contrary, that the delivery by electronic mail of the Title Defect Notices and Title Benefit Notices on November 19, 2012 to the other Parties constituted proper notice of the alleged Title Defects (the ) and alleged Title Benefits (the ) set forth therein for purposes of Sections 4.4 and 4.7 of the Exchange Agreement, respectively.
Delivery of Title Notices
Alleged Defects
Alleged Benefits
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
(b)
 
.  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Exchange Agreement to the contrary, the Parties acknowledge and agree that (i) there will be no adjustment to the Additional Consideration at the Second Closing on account of any Alleged Defects or Alleged Benefits, (ii) the Parties have not resolved any of the Alleged Defects or Alleged Benefits as of the Second Closing and will continue to attempt, in good faith, to reach agreement with respect to each Alleged Defect, Alleged Benefit and the value of each Alleged Defect and Alleged Benefit and the adequacy of any cure of any Alleged Defect prior to the Cure Deadline and (iii) if the Parties are unable to reach agreement on any Title Dispute on or before the Cure Deadline, then from and after the Cure Deadline, any Party shall have the right to elect, upon written notice to the other Parties, to initiate arbitration to resolve such Title Dispute in accordance with Section 4.9 of the Exchange Agreement.
Treatment of Alleged Defects and Alleged Benefits
 
 
Section 4.1
 
.  The Parties hereby ratify and confirm the terms and provisions of the Exchange Agreement, to the extent modified hereby, for all purposes.
Ratification
 
Section 4.2
 
.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of each Party hereto and its successors and permitted assigns.
Binding Agreement
 
Section 4.3
 
.  The provisions of Article XVI of the Exchange Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference, .  The Parties hereby agree that the terms and provisions of the Exchange Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as amended hereby.
Miscellaneous
mutatis mutandis
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed and delivered this Agreement effective as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 December 24, 2012  Denbury Resources Inc. (NYSE: DNR) ("Denbury" or the "Company") today announced the closing of the second and final phase of its previously announced Bakken sale and asset exchange with Exxon Mobil Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiary XTO Energy Inc. (collectively, ExxonMobil).  In the first closing, ExxonMobil retained $350 million cash and Denbury retained a 17.5% interest in the Bakken area assets to enable an exchange of the retained Bakken assets for roughly one-third of ExxonMobils CO reserves in LaBarge Field in Wyoming.  In this second phase closing, ExxonMobil exchanged the contemplated interest in the CO reserves and residual cash balances, after preliminary closing adjustments, for Denburys retained interest in the Bakken area assets.  Denbury has now transferred all of its Bakken area assets to ExxonMobil for approximately $1.3 billion of cash (which includes preliminary closing adjustments) along with ExxonMobils operating interests in Webster Field in Texas and Hartzog Draw Field in Wyoming and a portion of its CO reserves in Wyoming.
PLANO, TX
2
2
2
Based on the current capacity of the LaBarge plant and subject to availability, Denbury expects that it could receive up to approximately 115 million cubic feet per day of CO from the plant.  Denbury will pay ExxonMobil a fee to deliver the CO which will initially be used to flood its Bell Creek and Grieve fields along with the newly acquired Hartzog Draw Field.  This additional Rocky Mountain CO supply will allow Denbury to accelerate the planned CO flood of Hartzog Draw Field and potentially defer a portion of the planned development of its Riley Ridge CO reserves.
2
2
2
2
2
Denbury continues to pursue using a portion of the cash proceeds from the transaction to purchase interests in additional oil fields in the Gulf Coast or Rocky Mountain regions that are well suited for CO enhanced oil recovery which would qualify for like-kind exchange treatment for federal income tax purposes.  Accordingly, a substantial amount of the cash paid in the transaction remains in qualified trust accounts to fund any future potential asset purchases.
2
Denbury Resources Inc. is a growing independent oil and natural gas company. The Company is the largest combined oil and natural gas operator in both Mississippi and Montana, owns the largest reserves of CO used for tertiary oil recovery east of the Mississippi River, and holds significant operating acreage in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions. The Company's goal is to increase the value of acquired properties through a combination of exploitation, drilling and proven engineering extraction practices, with its most significant emphasis relating to tertiary oil recovery operations. For more information about Denbury, please visit www.denbury.com.
2
#      #      #
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties including those related to potential future asset acquisitions, future development plans, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Denbury's most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These risks and uncertainties are incorporated by this reference as though fully set forth herein.
DENBURY CONTACTS:
Phil Rykhoek, President and CEO, 972.673.2000
Mark Allen, Senior Vice President and CFO, 972.673.2000
Jack Collins, Executive Director, Investor Relations, 972.673.2028
 
 
 


