Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview We are primarily engaged in the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. In February 2002, we received FDA approval to market our second product, ZEVALIN, in the United States. We will market ZEVALIN as one product which will be comprised of two components, an imaging component for use with Indium 111 and a therapeutic component for use with Yttrium 90. We have retained all U.S. marketing and distribution rights to ZEVALIN and have granted marketing and distribution rights outside the U.S. to Schering AG. In January 2001, the EMEA accepted for filing the ZEVALIN MAA, submitted by Schering AG in the European Union. In March 2002, the "Summary of Product Characteristics" was approved by the European CPMP for the treatment of adult patients with Rituximab relapsed or refractory CD20+ follicular B cell NHL. The CPMPs final approval is pending and subject to a GMP inspection at DSM Pharmaceuticals. Our product Rituxan is being copromoted in the United States under a joint business arrangement with Genentech, where we receive a share of the pretax copromotion profits. Under the copromotion arrangement we share responsibility with Genentech for the sale and continued development of Rituxan in the United States. Continued development of Rituxan includes conducting supportive research on Rituxan, post approval clinical studies and obtaining potential approval of Rituxan for additional indications. Genentech provides the support functions for the commercialization of Rituxan in the United States including marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution, shipping and billing. Since September 1999, Genentech has been responsible for all worldwide manufacturing of Rituxan. Since the transfer of the manufacturing of Rituxan to Genentech, we have been using our manufacturing capacity for production of specification setting lots and pre commercial inventory of ZEVALIN antibodies and production of other proteins for clinical trials. Under the terms of separate agreements with Genentech, Roche is responsible for the commercialization of Rituxan outside the United States, except in Japan where it continues development and copromotes Rituxan in collaboration with Zenyaku. We receive royalties on Rituxan sales outside the United States. Our revenues include revenues from unconsolidated joint business, contract revenues and license fees. Until the commercialization of Rituxan, a substantial portion of our revenues had been derived from contract revenues and license fees. However, since the commercialization of Rituxan in November 1997, our revenues have depended primarily upon the sale of Rituxan. We have incurred increasing annual operating expenses and, with the commercialization of Rituxan and ZEVALIN, we expect these trends to continue. Since our inception in 1985, through 1997, we incurred annual operating losses. Our ongoing profitability will be dependent upon the continued 37 commercial success of Rituxan, the commercial success of ZEVALIN, if successful, product development, revenues from the achievement of product development objectives and licensing transactions. As of December 31, 2001, we had retained earnings of $115.1 million. Critical Accounting Principles and Estimates In response to the Securities and Exchange Commissions Release Numbers 33 8040 "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies" and 33 8056, "Commission Statement about Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," we have identified the following critical accounting policies that affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On a periodic basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, accounting for income taxes including the related valuation allowance, accruals for compensation and related benefits, and contingencies and litigation. We explain these accounting policies in the notes to our consolidated financial statements and at relevant sections in this discussion and analysis. These estimates are based on the information that is currently available and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition: Revenues from unconsolidated joint business include our share of the pretax copromotion profits generated from our copromotion arrangement with Genentech, revenue from bulk Rituxan sales to Genentech through March 2000, reimbursement from Genentech of our Rituxan related sales force and development expenses and royalty revenue from Roche on sales of Rituximab outside the United States. Revenue from bulk Rituxan sales was recognized when Genentech accepted the bulk Rituxan. Under the copromotion arrangement, all U.S. sales of Rituxan and associated costs and expenses are recognized by Genentech and we record our share of the pretax copromotion profits on a quarterly basis, as defined in our collaborative agreement with Genentech. Pretax copromotion profits under the copromotion arrangement are derived by taking U.S. net sales of Rituxan to third party customers less cost of sales, third party royalty expenses, distribution, selling and marketing expenses and joint development expenses incurred by Genentech and us. Contract revenues include nonrefundable research and development funding under collaborative agreements with our strategic partners and other funding under contractual arrangements with other parties. Contract research and development funding generally compensates us for discovery, preclinical and clinical expenses related to our collaborative development programs for our products and is recognized at the time research and development activities are performed under the terms of the collaborative agreements. License fees include nonrefundable fees from product development milestone payments and nonrefundable fees from the sale of product rights under collaborative development and license agreements with our strategic partners. Nonrefundable up front fees from the sale of product rights are recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt and recognized as revenue over future periods as required by the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," or SAB No. 101. Included in license fees are nonrefundable product development milestone payments which are recognized upon the achievement of product development milestone objectives as stipulated in agreements with our strategic partners. Product development 38 milestone objectives vary in each of our agreements. The achievement of product development milestone objectives that may lead to the recognition of license fee revenues include: the achievement of preclinical research and development objectives; the initiation of various phases of clinical trials; the filing of an IND application, BLA or NDA; the filing of drug license applications in foreign territories; and obtaining United States or foreign regulatory product approvals. Accounting for income taxes: As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves us estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a period, we may include an expense within the tax provision in the statement of operations. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We have recorded a valuation allowance of $70.7 million as of December 31, 2001, due to uncertainties related to our ability to utilize some of our deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of certain net operating loss carryforwards, before they expire. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable income by jurisdiction in which we operate and the period over which our deferred tax assets will be recoverable. Our estimates of taxable income are derived from, among other items, our estimates of deductions related to stock options. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2001 was $67.0 million, net of a valuation allowance of $70.7 million. Results of Operations Revenues from Unconsolidated Joint Business: Revenues from unconsolidated joint business for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, consist of the following (table in thousands): 2001 2000 1999 Copromotion profits $ 228,614 $ 113,221 $ 67,595 Bulk Rituxan sales 2,078 12,776 Reimbursement of selling and development expenses 8,160 9,322 8,273 Royalty revenue on sales of Rituximab outside the U.S. 14,654 8,161 4,553 $ 251,428 $ 132,782 $ 93,197 During the first quarter of 2000, we recognized the remaining revenues and related manufacturing costs from bulk Rituxan sales to Genentech. Under our agreement with Genentech, our pretax copromotion profit sharing formula has two tiers. We earn a higher percentage of the pretax copromotion profits at the upper tier once a fixed pretax copromotion profit level is met. The profit sharing formula resets annually at the beginning of each year to the lower tier. We began 39 recording our profit share at the higher percentage during the first quarter of 2001 compared to the beginning of the second quarter of 2000. In 1999, we began recording our profit share at the higher percentage during the second quarter. Rituxan net sales to third party customers in the United States recorded by Genentech for 2001 amounted to $779.0 million compared to $424.3 million in 2000 and $262.7 million in 1999. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to increased market penetration in treatments of B cell NHL and CCL and a three percent increase in the wholesale price of Rituxan in March 2001. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to increased market penetration in treatments of B cell NHL and a five percent increase in the wholesale price of Rituxan in May 2000. Our royalty revenue on sales of Rituximab outside the U.S. is based on Roches end user sales and is recorded with a one quarter lag. Contract Revenues: Contract revenues totaled $9.9 million in 2001 compared to $15.4 million in 2000 and $10.8 million in 1999. The decrease in contract revenues in 2001 resulted primarily from decreased funding under our collaboration and license agreement with Schering AG, partially offset by increased funding under our collaborative development agreement with Mitsubishi. The increase in contract revenues in 2000 compared to 1999 was primarily the result of funding under our collaboration and license agreement with Schering AG and our collaborative research and development agreement with Taisho, partially offset by the decreased funding under a collaborative agreement with Eisai. License Fees: License fees totaled $11.4 million in 2001 compared to $6.5 million in 2000 and $14.0 million in 1999. License fees in 2001 consist primarily of payments received from Eisai and revenue from Schering AG that was previously recognized in 1999, see "Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change " below, for the achievement of product development milestone objectives, and the receipt of a $5.0 million milestone payment from Schering AG when the EMEA accepted for filing the submission of a MAA for approval of ZEVALIN in Europe. License fees in 2000 consisted solely of revenue from Schering AG that was previously recognized in 1999, see "Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change " below. License fees in 1999 consisted primarily of a $13.0 million up front licensing fee from Schering AG for the development and commercialization of ZEVALIN outside the United States. Contract revenues and license fees may vary from year to year and are, in part, dependent upon achievement of research and development objectives or the consummation of new corporate alliances. The magnitude and timing of contract revenues and license fees may influence our achievement and level of profitability. We continue to pursue other collaborative and license arrangements, however, we cannot assure you that any of these arrangements will be realized. Manufacturing Costs: There were no manufacturing costs recorded for 2001 compared to $2.1 million in 2000 and $14.3 million in 1999. Our manufacturing costs recorded in 2000 related to production of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech and were recognized when Genentech accepted the bulk Rituxan inventory. The decrease in manufacturing costs in 2000 from 1999 was due to the transfer of all worldwide manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech in September 1999. The final lots of bulk Rituxan manufactured by us during the third quarter of 1999 were accepted by Genentech during the first quarter of 2000. Since the transfer of all worldwide manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech, and prior to receiving FDA approval for ZEVALIN in February 2002, we used our manufacturing capacity for production of specification setting lots and pre commercial inventory of ZEVALIN antibodies and production of other proteins for clinical trials. Those manufacturing expenses have been recorded as research and development expenses. Manufacturing costs are expected to increase in the future due to commercialization of ZEVALIN. Research and Development: Research and development expenses totaled $86.3 million in 2001 compared to $68.9 million in 2000 and $42.8 million in 1999. The increase in research and development 40 expenses in 2001 is primarily due to increased clinical testing of our various products under development, development costs for ZEVALIN, personnel expenses and expansion of our facilities. The increase in research and development expenses in 2000 from 1999 was primarily due to ZEVALIN related manufacturing and process development expenses, technology in licensing and expansion of our facilities. In the future we expect to continue incurring substantial additional research and development expenses due to: continuing development programs for ZEVALIN; the expansion or addition of research and development programs; technology in licensing; regulatory related expenses; the expansion of clinical manufacturing capabilities; facilities expansion; and preclinical and clinical testing of our various products under development. Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $55.2 million in 2001 compared to $27.8 million in 2000 and $19.5 million in 1999. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2001 primarily due to increased marketing and administrative expenses related to the commercialization of ZEVALIN, sales expenses to support Rituxan, legal expenses to defend ZEVALIN patent issues and general increases in general and administrative expenses to support overall organizational growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2000 primarily due to increased legal and patent filing fees and increases in sales and marketing expenses resulting from the commercialization of Rituxan. Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to increase in the foreseeable future to support the following: expanded growth of our sales force; marketing and administration related to the commercialization of ZEVALIN; manufacturing capacity; clinical trials; research and development; and legal fees to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights for ZEVALIN and our product candidates. Interest Income/Expense: Interest income totaled $37.8 million in 2001 compared to $20.5 million in 2000 and $10.2 million in 1999. The increase in interest income in 2001 and 2000 is primarily due to higher average balances in cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale resulting from the sale of 7.8 million shares of common stock in November 2000, cash provided by operations and cash provided from the issuance of common stock under employee stock option and purchase plans. The average interest rates earned on our investments in 2001 decreased from the average interest rates earned on our investments in 2000 as a result of declining market interest rates. Interest expense totaled $7.3 million in 2001 compared to $7.1 million in 2000 and $6.1 million in 1999. The increase in interest expense in 2001 and 2000 is primarily due to noncash interest charges relating to the convertible promissory notes offering in February 1999. Interest expense is expected to increase in the future due to noncash interest charges from our convertible promissory notes. Income Tax Provision: Our effective tax rate in 2001 was approximately 37% compared to 17% percent in 2000 and five percent in 1999. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2001 primarily 41 resulted from changes in the valuation allowance that resulted in a lower tax rate in 2000. Our tax rate for 2001 differed from a normal statutory rate due to the generation of research and development tax credits. The tax rate of 17% in 2000 is higher than the comparable tax rate of five percent in 1999 due to greater changes in valuation allowance in 1999 than in 2000. Our net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income at December 31, 2001 were approximately $174.0 million for federal income tax purposes and begin to expire in 2009. The utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation under the Internal Revenue Code due to a cumulative change of ownership of more than 50% in prior years. However, we anticipate this annual limitation to result only in a slight deferral in the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change: In the fourth quarter of 2000, we implemented SAB No. 101, which became effective as of January 1, 2000. SAB No. 101 established new guidelines in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. SAB No. 101 provides that nonrefundable up front fees received under collaborative agreements be recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt and recognized as revenue over future periods. Prior to the implementation of SAB No. 101, we recognized certain nonrefundable up front fees upon receipt as license fee revenue. The cumulative effect of this accounting change on years prior to 2000 resulted in a charge of $9.3 million (net of a $0.5 million income tax effect), that was reflected effectively in the first quarter of 2000, of which $6.5 million and 3.3 million was recognized as license fee revenue in 2000 and 2001, respectively. This accounting change is directly related to the $13.0 million up front license fee received from Schering AG and recognized as license fee revenue in 1999. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed our operating and capital expenditures since inception principally through sales of equity securities, profits from our copromotion arrangement with Genentech related to the sales of Rituxan, license fees, contract revenues, lease financing transactions, debt financing transactions and interest income. We expect to finance our current and planned operating requirements principally through cash on hand, anticipated funds from our copromotion arrangement with Genentech, anticipated funds from commercial sales of ZEVALIN and with funds from existing collaborative agreements and contracts. We believe that these funds will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for the foreseeable future. Existing collaborative research agreements and contracts, however, could be canceled by the contracting parties. In addition, we may, from time to time seek additional funding through a combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances and additional equity and debt financings or from other sources. Additional funds may not be obtainable through these sources on acceptable terms if at all. If adequate funds are not available from the copromotion arrangement, operations or additional sources of financing, our business could be harmed. Our working capital and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: the continued commercial success of Rituxan; the commercial success of ZEVALIN; timing and expense of obtaining regulatory approvals; financing alternatives available for the construction of our large scale manufacturing facilities and corporate headquarters and research and development campus; the progress of our preclinical and clinical testing; 42  fluctuating or increasing manufacturing requirements and research and development programs; levels of resources that we devote to the development of manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities, including resources devoted to the commercial launch of ZEVALIN; technological advances; status of competitors; and our ability to establish collaborative arrangements with other organizations. Until required for operations, we invest our cash reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate notes, foreign and United States government instruments and other readily marketable debt instruments in accordance with our investment policy. At December 31, 2001, we had $866.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale compared to $750.5 million at December 31, 2000. Sources of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale during the year ended December 31, 2001 included $153.8 million from operations and $28.1 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock option and purchase plans. Uses of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale during the year ended December 31, 2001 included $67.4 million used to purchase property and capital equipment and $0.7 million used to pay notes payable. Under the terms of our agreement with MDS Canada, we are obligated to make periodic payments into an escrow account. These funds secure certain obligations we have under the agreement regarding minimum annual purchases and MDS Canadas establishment of a new facility to supply us with Yttrium 90. In general, our required escrow deposits will decrease over time if we satisfy portions of our minimum annual purchase commitment. As of March 31, 2002, we have paid $5.0 million into this escrow fund. In April 2001, we purchased a 43,000 square foot facility to house our future clinical manufacturing area. We anticipate that we will have to invest approximately $50.0 million in 2002 to fund construction of building improvements for this new facility and expect to pay for these costs through our working capital. In September 2001, we purchased approximately 42.6 acres in San Diego for a proposed corporate headquarters and research and development campus. Additional costs we expect to incur in connection with this campus include design, development and construction costs, as well as the purchase and installation of equipment and furnishings for the campus. We estimate these costs at approximately $100.0 million over a two year period. We expect to pay for these costs in part from our working capital and we presently are evaluating financing the remaining costs for this campus through any number of financing arrangements, including a sale of equity or debt securities, financings with banks or other financial institutions or an off balance sheet lease arrangement that will likely involve using cash on hand as collateral. We cannot assure you that financing for this campus will be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. In the third quarter of 2001, we began preliminary site engineering preparations for the campus, which could potentially expand to over 750,000 square feet of facilities. The first phase of construction is expected to be completed in early 2004. In September 2000, we purchased a 60 acre site in Oceanside for approximately $18.9 million in cash. We plan to build a large scale manufacturing facility at the location, which we anticipate using to commercialize our products currently in clinical trials if they are approved by the FDA. Additional costs we expect to incur in connection with this facility include design, development, construction, validation and start up costs, as well as the purchase and installation of equipment and furnishings for the facility. We estimate these costs at over $400.0 million over a four year period. We expect to pay for these costs in part from our working capital and we are presently evaluating financing alternatives including a sale of equity or debt securities, financings with banks or other financial institutions or an 43 off balance sheet lease arrangement that will likely involve using cash on hand as collateral. We cannot assure you that financing for this facility will be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all. In the first quarter of 2001, we began preliminary site engineering preparations for the first phase of development, which is anticipated to be approximately 450,000 square feet of facility space for manufacturing, warehousing, utilities, maintenance, laboratories and offices. We expect the first phase of the new facility to be mechanically completed in 2004, followed by commissioning and validation in 2005 and 2006. This expansion will allow us to better control the manufacture of our products, reducing our reliance on contract manufacturers, as well as to reduce commercial risk. In February 1999, we raised through the sale of convertible promissory notes approximately $112.7 million, net of underwriting commissions and expenses of $3.9 million. The convertible promissory notes are zero coupon and were priced with a yield to maturity of 5.5% annually. Upon maturity, the convertible promissory notes will have an aggregate principal face value of $345.0 million. Each $1,000 aggregate principal face value convertible promissory note is convertible at the holders option at any time through maturity into 40.404 shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $8.36. We are required under the terms of the convertible promissory notes, following a change in control occurring on or before February 16, 2004, to purchase any convertible promissory note at the option of its holder at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase. Additionally, the holders of the convertible promissory notes may require us to purchase the convertible promissory notes on February 16, 2004, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase with us having the option to repay the convertible promissory notes plus accrued original issue discount in cash, our common stock or a combination thereof. We have the right to redeem the convertible promissory notes on or after February 16, 2004. In October 1992, we entered into a collaborative research and license agreement with GlaxoSmithKline related to the development and commercialization of compounds based on our PRIMATIZED anti CD4 antibodies. In February 2000, we amended and restated our agreement with GlaxoSmithKline which resulted in all anti CD4 program rights, including those for IDEC 151, being returned to us. We will receive no further funding from GlaxoSmithKline under the restated agreement. As part of the restated agreement, GlaxoSmithKline has the option to negotiate commercialization and copromotion rights with us for the first compound based on our PRIMATIZED anti CD4 antibodies to complete a Phase II study. If we do not commercialize and copromote the compound with GlaxoSmithKline, we will pay GlaxoSmithKline royalties on sales and licensees by us or our affiliates on products emerging from the rights returned to us under the restated agreement. We had future minimum lease payment obligations under our operating leases of $56.9 million as of December 31, 2001. Additionally, in February 2002, we entered into a lease agreement in which we will pay $7.1 million over the next four years. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non exchange traded contracts. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We do not have relationships or transactions with persons or entities that derive benefits from their non independent relationship with us or our related parties other than what is disclosed in "
 
