Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview We are primarily engaged in the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. In February 2002, Zevalin became the first radioimmunotherapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of certain B cell NHLs. We have retained all United States marketing and distribution rights to Zevalin and have granted marketing and distribution rights outside the United States to Schering AG. In January 2001, the EMEA accepted for filing the Zevalin MAA, submitted by Schering AG in the European Union. In March 2002, the "Summary of Product Characteristics" was approved by the European CPMP for the treatment of adult patients with Rituximab relapsed or refractory CD20+ follicular B cell NHL. In July 2002, we announced that marketing approval in Europe and European launch of Zevalin would be delayed. The CPMPs final approval is pending approval of our manufacturing facilities and fill/finish provider by the EMEA. Our other product, Rituxan, is being copromoted in the United States under a joint business arrangement with Genentech, where we receive a share of the pretax copromotion profits. Under the copromotion arrangement, we share responsibility with Genentech for selling and continued development of Rituxan in the United States. Continued development of Rituxan includes conducting supportive research on Rituxan, post approval clinical studies and obtaining approval of Rituxan for potential additional indications. Genentech provides the support functions for the commercialization of Rituxan in the United States including marketing, customer service, order entry, distribution, shipping and billing. Since September 1999, Genentech has been responsible for all worldwide manufacturing of Rituxan. Under the terms of separate agreements with Genentech, commercialization of Rituxan outside the United States is the responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where it copromotes Rituxan in collaboration with Zenyaku. We receive royalties on Rituxan sales outside the United States. Our revenues include revenues from product sales of Zevalin, revenues from unconsolidated joint business arrangement and corporate partner revenues. Since the commercialization of Rituxan in November 1997, our revenues have depended primarily upon the sale of Rituxan. We have incurred increasing annual operating expenses and, with the commercialization of Rituxan and Zevalin, we expect these trends to continue. Since our inception in 1985, through 1997, we incurred annual operating losses. Our ongoing profitability will be dependent upon the continued commercial success of Rituxan, the commercial success of Zevalin, product development and revenues from the achievement of product development objectives and licensing transactions. As of December 31, 2002, we had retained earnings of $263.2 million. Critical Accounting Principles and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On a periodic basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition and related allowances, inventory allowances, income taxes including the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, valuation of long lived assets and investments, and contingencies and litigation. These estimates are based on the information that is currently available and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 41 Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most subjective judgments. We have identified the following as the most critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our accounting policies. Revenue recognition and related allowances: Revenues from sales of Zevalin are recognized upon shipment and transfer of title and risk of loss to the customer. We record allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable, product returns and Medicaid rebates at the time of sale. Our estimates for uncollectible accounts receivable, product returns and Medicaid rebates are based primarily on our experience with Zevalin to date, historical experience with Rituxan and other factors, updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate. If actual results vary, we may need to adjust our estimates, which could have an impact on earnings in the period of adjustment. Revenues from unconsolidated joint business arrangement consist of our share of the pretax copromotion profits generated from our copromotion arrangement with Genentech, reimbursement from Genentech of our Rituxan related sales force and development expenses and royalty revenue from sales of Rituximab outside the United States by Roche and Zenyaku. Under the copromotion arrangement, all U.S. sales of Rituxan and associated costs and expenses are recognized by Genentech and we record our share of the pretax copromotion profits on a quarterly basis, as defined in our collaborative agreement with Genentech. Pretax copromotion profits under the copromotion arrangement are derived by taking U.S. net sales of Rituxan to third party customers less cost of sales, third party royalty expenses, distribution, selling and marketing expenses and joint development expenses incurred by Genentech and us. Our profit sharing formula with Genentech has two tiers; we earn a higher percentage of the pretax copromotion profits at the upper tier once a fixed pretax copromotion profit level is met. The profit sharing formula resets annually at the beginning of each year to the lower tier. We record our royalty revenue with a one quarter lag. Corporate partner revenues, which consist of contract revenues and license fees, are recognized in accordance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, or SAB No. 101. Revenue is not recognized unless collectibility is reasonably assured and the earnings process is complete. We believe our revenue recognition policies are in compliance with SAB No. 101. Income taxes: In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial statement purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Our estimates of future taxable income are derived from, among other items, our estimates of future deductions related to stock options. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in future periods, we may need to establish a valuation allowance which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by the first in, first out method, or market. If inventory costs were to exceed expected market value due to excess, obsolescence or unmarketability, we would record allowances for the difference between the cost and 42 the market value. We have not recorded any such allowances as of December 31, 2002. Included in inventory are raw materials used in the production of clinical products which are recorded to research and development expense when consumed. Pre launch production of Zevalin antibodies manufactured prior to FDA approval in February 2002 were recognized as research and development expenses. Results of Operations Product Sales: Product sales consist solely of sales of Zevalin, our radioimmunotherapy product which was approved by the FDA for the treatment of certain B cell NHLs in February 2002. Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 11% and primarily consists of contractual royalties owed on Zevalin sales. Pre launch production of Zevalin antibodies manufactured prior to FDA approval in February 2002 were recognized as research and development expenses. Zevalin sales to date have solely consisted of Zevalin antibodies produced prior to FDA approval in February 2002. Had pre launch production of Zevalin antibodies been recorded as inventory, cost of sales as a percentage of product sales would have been approximately 14%. Revenues from Unconsolidated Joint Business Arrangement: Revenues from unconsolidated joint business arrangement for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, consist of the following (table in thousands): 2002 2001 2000 Copromotion profits $ 324,498 $ 228,614 $ 113,221 Bulk Rituxan sales 2,078 Reimbursement of selling and development expenses 15,879 8,160 9,322 Royalty revenue on sales of Rituximab outside the U.S., including royalties received directly from Roche 45,432 14,654 8,161 $ 385,809 $ 251,428 $ 132,782 Under our agreement with Genentech, our pretax copromotion profit sharing formula has two tiers. We earn a higher percentage of the pretax copromotion profits at the upper tier once a fixed pretax copromotion profit level is met. The profit sharing formula resets annually at the beginning of each year to the lower tier. We began recording our profit share at the higher percentage during the first quarter of both 2002 and 2001 compared to the beginning of the second quarter of 2000. Rituxan net sales to third party customers in the United States recorded by Genentech for 2002 amounted to $1.08 billion compared to $779.0 million in 2001 and $424.3 million in 2000. The increase in 2002 and 2001 was primarily due to increased market penetration in treatments of B cell NHLs and chronic lymphocytic leukemia and increases in the wholesale price of Rituxan effective March 2002, March 2001 and May 2000. Our royalty revenue on sales of Rituximab outside the U.S. is based on Roche and Zenyakus end user sales and is recorded with a one quarter lag. The increase in royalty revenues in 2002 is due to higher sales of Rituxan outside the U.S. resulting from increased penetration of foreign markets, including initial sales of Rituxan in Canada and Japan. Corporate Partner Revenues: Corporate partner revenues totaled $4.7 million in 2002 compared to $21.2 million in 2001 and $21.9 million in 2000. The decrease in corporate partner revenues in 2002 is primarily due to decreased research and development funding in 2002 under our collaborations with Taisho, resulting from the termination of our collaboration with Taisho in 2002, and Mitsubishi, partially offset by increased research and development funding under our collaboration with Seikagaku. Additionally, in 2001, we recognized a $5.0 million payment received from Schering AG when the 43 EMEA accepted for filing the submission of a MAA for approval of Zevalin in Europe and $3.3 million of revenues resulting from the implementation of SAB No. 101. The decrease in corporate partner revenues in 2001 resulted primarily from decreased research and development funding under our collaborations with Schering AG and Taisho, partially offset by increased research and development funding under our collaboration with Mitsubishi and a $2.0 million milestone payment received under our collaboration with Eisai. Contract revenues and license fees are, in part, dependent upon the achievement of certain research and development and commercialization objectives and, accordingly, may vary from year to year. Manufacturing Costs: Manufacturing costs recorded in 2000 are related to the production of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech and were recognized when Genentech accepted the bulk Rituxan inventory. No manufacturing costs were recorded in 2002 and 2001 due to the transfer of all worldwide manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech in September 1999. The final lots of bulk Rituxan manufactured by us during the third quarter of 1999 were accepted by Genentech during the first quarter of 2000. Since the transfer of all worldwide manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech, and prior to receiving FDA approval for Zevalin in February 2002, we used our manufacturing capacity for production of specification setting lots and commercial inventory of Zevalin antibodies and production of other proteins for clinical trials. Those manufacturing expenses were recorded as research and development expenses. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses totaled $93.6 million in 2002 compared to $86.3 million in 2001 and $68.9 million in 2000. The increase in research and development expenses in 2002 is primarily due to upfront fees incurred under new collaborations, one time license fees incurred for technology rights related to our products, increased personnel expenses and expansion of our facilities to support our ongoing basic research and clinical development programs, partially offset by capitalization of manufacturing costs for the production of commercial inventory of Zevalin antibodies and decreased clinical testing and development costs for Zevalin as a result of the FDAs approval of Zevalin. The increase in research and development expenses in 2001 is primarily due to increased clinical testing of our various products under development, development costs for Zevalin, personnel expenses and expansion of our facilities. Our Zevalin bulk inventory levels at December 31, 2002 are expected to be adequate to support Zevalin sales in 2003. As such, we do not anticipate manufacturing Zevalin bulk inventory in 2003. In 2003, our manufacturing facilities will be primarily used to support products in development which will cause the majority of the costs of our manufacturing operations to be recorded as research and development expense in 2003. Such costs were capitalized into inventory in 2002 to the extent they related to the manufacture of Zevalin. In the future we expect to continue incurring substantial additional research and development expenses due to: preclinical and clinical testing of our various products under development; the expansion or addition of research and development programs; technology in licensing; regulatory related expenses; the expansion of clinical manufacturing capabilities; and facilities expansion. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $95.2 million in 2002 compared to $55.2 million in 2001 and $27.8 million in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 increased primarily due to increased sales and marketing expenses related to the commercial launch of Zevalin, sales expenses to support the commercialization of 44 Rituxan, increased legal fees to protect our intellectual property rights for Zevalin and increases in general and administrative expenses to support overall organizational growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2001 primarily due to increased marketing and administrative expenses related to the commercialization of Zevalin, sales expenses to support Rituxan, legal expenses to defend Zevalin patent issues and general increases in general and administrative expenses to support overall organizational growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to increase in the foreseeable future to support the following: marketing and administration related to the commercialization of Zevalin; manufacturing capacity expansion; clinical trials; research and development; and protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights for Zevalin and our product candidates. Interest Income/Expense: Interest income totaled $33.7 million in 2002 compared to $37.8 million in 2001 and $20.5 million in 2000. The decrease in interest income in 2002 is primarily due to significantly lower interest rates earned on our cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale, partially offset by higher cash balances from the issuance of our senior convertible promissory notes due 2032, or senior notes, in April and May 2002. The increase in interest income in 2001 is primarily due to higher average balances in cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale resulting from the sale of 7.8 million shares of our common stock in November 2000, cash provided by operations and cash provided from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and purchase plans. The average yields earned on our investments in 2002 decreased from the average yields earned on our investments in 2001 as a result of declining market interest rates. Interest income levels to be achieved in the future are, in part, dependent upon market conditions. Interest expense totaled $16.1 million in 2002 compared to $7.3 million in 2001 and $7.1 million in 2000. The increase in interest expense in 2002 is due to noncash interest expense from our senior notes issued in April and May 2002, partially offset by the capitalization of $0.4 million of interest costs related to the development of our corporate headquarters and research and development campus in San Diego, California and our large scale manufacturing facility in Oceanside, California. The increase in interest expense in 2001 is primarily due to noncash interest from our subordinated convertible promissory notes due 2019, or subordinated notes, issued in February 1999. Income Tax Provision: Our effective tax rate in 2002 was approximately 36% compared to 37% percent in 2001 and 17% in 2000. Our effective tax rates for 2002 and 2001 were less than a normal statutory rate due primarily to the generation of tax credits by our research and development activities. We have net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes available to offset future taxable income. The utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation under the Internal Revenue Code due to a cumulative change of ownership of more than 50% in prior years. However, we anticipate this annual limitation to result only in a slight deferral in the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. During 2002, we decreased our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets to zero as, based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods that our deferred tax assets are deductible, we believe it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates of future taxable income or we adjust our estimates in future periods, we may need to establish a valuation allowance which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. We expect that our effective tax rate in the future will be slightly higher than levels achieved in 2002 but continue to be 45 lower than a normal statutory rate as a result of our continued research and development efforts which we expect to generate tax credits. Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change: In the fourth quarter of 2000, we implemented SAB No. 101, which became effective as of January 1, 2000. SAB No. 101 provides that nonrefundable up front fees received under collaborative agreements be recorded as deferred revenue upon receipt and recognized as revenue over future periods. Prior to the implementation of SAB No. 101, we recognized certain nonrefundable up front fees as revenue upon receipt. The cumulative effect of this accounting change on years prior to 2000 resulted in a charge of $9.3 million, net of a $0.5 million income tax effect, of which $3.3 million and $6.5 million was recognized as license fee revenue in 2001 and 2000, respectively. This accounting change was directly related to the $13.0 million up front license fee received from Schering AG that was initially recognized as license fee revenue in 1999, prior to the implementation of SAB No. 101. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed our operating and capital expenditures since inception principally through sales of equity securities, profits from our joint business arrangement related to the sale of Rituxan, corporate partner revenues, lease financing transactions, debt financing transactions and interest income. We expect to finance our current and planned operating requirements principally through cash on hand, which includes the proceeds from the April and May 2002 issuance of our senior notes, funds from our joint business arrangement, funds from commercial sales of Zevalin and funds from existing collaborative agreements and contracts. We believe that these funds will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for the foreseeable future. Existing collaborative research agreements and contracts, however, could be canceled by the contracting parties. In addition, we may, from time to time, seek additional funding through a combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances and additional equity and debt financings or from other sources. Additional funds may not be obtainable through these sources on acceptable terms if at all. If adequate funds are not obtainable from our joint business arrangement, commercial sales of Zevalin, operations or additional sources of financing, our business could be harmed. Our working capital and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: the continued commercial success of Rituxan; the commercial success of Zevalin; timing and expense of obtaining regulatory approvals; funding and timing of payments related to several material capital projects, including the development of our large scale manufacturing facility and corporate headquarters and research and development campus; the progress of our preclinical and clinical testing; fluctuating or increasing manufacturing requirements and research and development programs; levels of resources that we devote to the development of manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities, including resources devoted to the marketing of Zevalin; technological advances; status of competitors; our ability to establish collaborative arrangements with other organizations; and working capital required to satisfy the put options related to our senior notes. 46 Until required for operations, we invest our cash reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate notes, foreign and United States government instruments and other readily marketable debt instruments in accordance with our investment policy. At December 31, 2002, we had $1.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale compared to $866.6 million at December 31, 2001. Sources of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale during the year ended December 31, 2002 included $696.0 million from the issuance of our senior notes in April and May 2002, $179.2 million provided by operations and $23.1 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock option and purchase plans. Uses of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale during the year ended December 31, 2002 included $165.9 million used to fund construction projects and purchase property and capital equipment and $135.0 million used for the repurchase of common stock for treasury. In April and May 2002, we raised through the issuance of our senior notes, approximately $696.0 million, net of underwriting commissions and expenses of $18.4 million. Simultaneously with the issuance of the senior notes, we used a portion of the proceeds to fund the repurchase of $135.0 million of our outstanding common stock. The senior notes are zero coupon and were priced with a yield to maturity of 1.75% annually. We will pay contingent cash interest to the holders of these senior notes during any nine month period commencing on or after April 30, 2007 if the average market price of the senior notes for a five trading day measurement period preceding such nine month period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such senior note. The contingent interest payable per senior note in respect of any quarterly period within such nine month period where contingent interest is determined to be payable will equal the greater of (1) the amount of regular cash dividends paid by us per share on our common stock during that quarterly period multiplied by the then applicable conversion rate or (2) 0.0625% of the average market price of a senior note for the five trading day measurement period preceding such nine month period, provided that if we do not pay regular cash dividends during a semiannual period, we will pay contingent interest semiannually at a rate of 0.125% of the average market price of a senior note for the five trading day measurement period immediately preceding such nine month period. Upon maturity, the senior notes will have an aggregate principal face value of $1.2 billion. Each $1,000 aggregate principal face value senior note is convertible at the holders option at any time through maturity into 7.1881 shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $82.49. In addition, holders of the senior notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of the senior notes on April 29, 2005, 2007, 2012 and 2017 at a price equal to the issue price plus the accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase, payable at our option in cash, our common stock or a combination thereof. In addition, if a change in control in our company occurs on or before April 29, 2007, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their senior notes for cash. We have the right to redeem all or a portion of the senior notes for cash at any time on or after April 29, 2007 at set prices. We have an agreement with MDS Canada for the development and supply of the radioisotope yttrium 90 used with our Zevalin product. Under the terms of our agreement with MDS Canada, we are obligated to make periodic payments into an escrow account. These funds secure certain obligations we have under the agreement regarding minimum annual purchases of yttrium 90 and MDS Canadas establishment of a new facility to supply us with yttrium 90. As of December 31, 2002, we have paid $22.5 million into this escrow fund. In September 2001, we purchased approximately 42.6 acres of land in San Diego, California for approximately $31.7 million in cash where we are building a corporate headquarters and research and development campus. The first phase of construction is expected to be completed in mid 2004 at an estimated total cost of $177 million which will be funded from our working capital. As of December 31, 2002, we have invested approximately $8.4 million in the construction of this campus. 47 In April 2001, we purchased a building in Oceanside, California to be used potentially for the manufacture of Zevalin bulk antibody, drug supply for certain of our clinical trials and drug supply for any potential product launches prior to 2005. Refurbishment of this facility was completed in the fourth quarter of 2002 at a total cost of approximately $57 million which was funded with our working capital. We are currently performing validation activities in this facility. In September 2000, we purchased a 60 acre site in Oceanside, California for approximately $18.9 million in cash. In December 2002, we purchased an additional 27 acres of land at the Oceanside site for $7.9 million in cash. We are building a large scale manufacturing facility at this location, which we anticipate using to commercialize our products currently in clinical trials if they are approved by the FDA. This facility will allow us to better control the manufacture of our products, reducing our reliance on contract manufacturers, as well as reducing commercial supply risk. We anticipate the first phase of the new facility to be mechanically completed in 2004, followed by commissioning and validation in 2005 and 2006. Total costs of this facility upon completion are estimated to be $400 million which will be funded from our working capital. As of December 31, 2002, we have invested approximately $93.7 million in the construction of this large scale manufacturing facility. In February 1999, we raised through the issuance of our subordinated notes, approximately $112.7 million, net of underwriting commissions and expenses of $3.9 million. The subordinated notes are zero coupon and were priced with a yield to maturity of 5.5% annually. Upon maturity, the subordinated notes will have an aggregate principal face value of $345.0 million. Each $1,000 aggregate principal face value subordinated note is convertible at the holders option at any time through maturity into 40.404 shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $8.36. We are required under the terms of the subordinated notes, following a change in control occurring on or before February 16, 2004, to purchase any subordinated note at the option of its holder at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase. Additionally, the holders of the subordinated notes may require us to purchase the subordinated notes on February 16, 2004, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase with us having the option to repay the subordinated notes plus accrued original issue discount in cash, our common stock or a combination thereof. We have the right to redeem the subordinated notes on or after February 16, 2004. In connection with our research and development efforts, we have entered into various collaborative arrangements under which we may be obligated to pay royalties or milestone payments if product development is successful. It is not anticipated that the aggregate of any royalty or milestone obligations under these arrangements will be material to our operations. In January 2003, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Biogen, under which we will collaborate on the development of three oncology therapeutics from Biogens pipeline of early stage product candidates, including IDEC 201. Under the terms of this agreement, we will initially be responsible for the development costs of the product candidates, until that time, if any, when Biogen exercises opt in rights with respect to each specific product candidate. If Biogen exercises its opt in rights for a specific product, we will share equally all subsequent costs and economic benefit related to that specific product with Biogen. If Biogen chooses not to exercise its opt in rights, we will pay royalties to Biogen for future sales, if any, of the specific products. Contractual Obligations We had future minimum lease payment obligations under our operating leases totaling $56.7 million as of December 31, 2002. 48 Other Historically, we have not utilized off balance sheet arrangements or derivative financial instruments in our operating, investing and financing activities. Our transactions with our related parties, Genentech, Roche and Zenyaku, are disclosed in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, or Statement No. 146. Statement No. 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Statement No. 146 requires that the initial measurement of a liability be at fair value. The provisions of Statement No. 146 generally are required to be applied prospectively after the adoption date to newly initiated disposal activities. Therefore, we cannot determine the potential effect that the adoption of Statement No. 146 will have on our consolidated financial statements in the future. In November 2002, the EITF released Issue No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Issue No. 00 21 addresses how to determine whether a revenue arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting for the purposes of revenue recognition and how the revenue arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. Issue No. 00 21 applies to all revenue arrangements that we enter into after June 27, 2003. The adoption of this statement is not currently anticipated to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34, or FIN No. 45. FIN No. 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. It also requires that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of certain guarantees. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements of FIN No. 45 are effective for interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. We have adopted the disclosure provisions of FIN No. 45 as of December 31, 2002. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, or FIN No. 46. FIN No. 46 requires existing unconsolidated variable interest entities to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if the entities do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. Variable interest entities that effectively disperse risk will not be consolidated unless a single party holds an interest or combination of interests that effectively recombines risks that were previously dispersed. FIN No. 46 also requires enhanced disclosure requirements related to variable interest entities. FIN No. 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities in which an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003 to variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003. We do not believe that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement will have a material impact on our financial statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including changes in interest rates affecting the return on our investments and the cost of our debt. 49 At December 31, 2002, we maintained a portion of our cash and cash equivalents in financial instruments with original maturities of three months or less. We also maintained an investment portfolio containing financial instruments in which the majority have maturities at purchase of greater than three months but less than 24 months. These financial instruments, principally comprised of corporate obligations and U.S. government obligations, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. A hypothetical ten percent change in interest rates during the year ended December 31, 2002, would have resulted in approximately a $3.3 million change in pretax income. We have not used derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our long term debt totaled $866.2 million at December 31, 2002 and was comprised solely of our senior notes which bear interest at a rate of 1.75% and our subordinated notes which bear interest at a rate of 5.5%. These long term debt obligations bear interest at a weighed average interest rate of 2.4%. Due to the fixed rate nature of our convertible promissory notes, an immediate ten percent change in interest rates would not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are also exposed to market risk in that an increase in our stock price or an increase in interest rates may make conversion of the convertible promissory notes to common stock beneficial to the convertible promissory notes holder. Conversion of the convertible promissory notes would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and book value per common share.  
 
