Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverview. We have significantly modified our debit strategy as a result. See Overview.Interchange Reimbursement Fees. We have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the United States and many other geographies. The new rules under the Dodd Frank Act set the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty one cents plus five basis points, before applying a fraud adjustment of up to an additional one cent. This amounts to a significant reduction from the average system wide fees charged previously. See Item 1ARisk FactorsThe Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business; and Item 1ARisk FactorsAdditional regulation of interchange 11Table of Contentsreimbursement fees may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. The United States is not the only jurisdiction to regulate debit interchange reimbursement fees. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia has enacted a regulation limiting the costs that can be considered in setting interchange reimbursement fees for both our credit and our debit cards. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in an open loop payments network such as ours. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are paid to issuers by acquirers in connection with transactions initiated from products in our payments system. We generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. They are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Default interchange reimbursement fees are an important driver of system volume and value. They promote the efficient operation of our payments network by enabling both the issuer and the acquirer to understand the economics of a given transaction before entering into it and by giving our clients an alternative to negotiating transfer pricing with each other. By establishing and modifying default interchange rates in response to marketplace conditions and strategic demands, we seek to ensure a competitive value proposition for transactions using our cards in order to encourage electronic transactions and to maximize participation in the Visa payments system by issuers and acquirers and, ultimately, consumers and merchants. We believe that proper management of interchange rates benefits consumers, merchants, our financial institution clients and us by promoting the overall growth of our payments network in competition with other payment card systems and other forms of payment, and by creating incentives for innovation, enhanced data quality and security. Merchants do not directly pay interchange reimbursement fees. A merchants cost of acceptance is determined by its acquirer and is called a merchant discount or merchant discount rate. The merchant discount typically covers the costs that acquirers incur for participation in open loop payments networks, including those relating to interchange, and compensates them for various other services they provide to merchants. Merchant discount rates and other merchant fees are set by our acquirers without our involvement and by agreement with their merchant clients and are established in competition with other acquirers, other payment card systems and other forms of payment. We do not establish or regulate the level of merchant discount rates or any other fees charged by our acquirers. In some cases, such as India, the governing authorities have regulated the merchant discount rate itself, rather than the interchange reimbursement fee. Network Exclusivity and Routing. We have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the Visa network or receive incentives if they do so. In addition, issuers of some debit products outside the United States have historically chosen to include only the Visa network. We refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. The Dodd Frank Act limits our and issuers ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. See Item 1AThe Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.As another example, the Canadian Ministry of Finance has implemented a voluntary Code of Conduct for payment card industry participants, with which Visa has agreed to comply. Among other things, the Code of Conduct prohibits certain restrictions on merchants choice of payment options they will accept. See Item 1ARisk FactorsAdditional regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd Frank Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The bureaus future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating the industry. No Surcharge Rules. We have historically implemented policies that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using Visa instead of other means. Some local jurisdictions have taken steps to limit these no surcharge rules. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia enacted a regulation that prohibited us from enforcing our no surcharge policy and effectively allowed merchants to impose discretionary surcharges on Visa 12Table of Contentstransactions without limitation. Recently, the Reserve Bank of Australia, while reinforcing its position that surcharging is appropriate in that market, has taken steps that would allow us to limit the level of surcharges that merchants can impose. Additionally, in the United States there are ten states that prohibit the use of the surcharge as an anti consumer practice through their state legislatures. Data Protection and Information Security. We devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine our information security program in order to comply with U.S. federal and state and foreign regulations safeguarding cardholder information and requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, the U.S. Federal Financial Institution Examination Council periodically reviews certain of our operations in the United States to examine our compliance with data integrity, security and operational requirements and standards, as well as other requirements applicable to us because of our role as a service provider to financial institutions. Anti Money Laundering, Anti Terrorism and Sanctioned Countries. In response to U.S. and other regulations, we devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine a program to prevent the use of our payments system to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. We also prohibit from being Visa members all financial institutions that are domiciled in countries sanctioned by the U.S. Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Controlcurrently Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan. In addition, we refrain from any financial dealings with restricted third parties, such as identified money laundering fronts for terrorists and narcotics traffickers. Government Imposed Market Participation Influences and Restrictions. Our businesss reach remains limited by certain governments influence on domestic payments competition and or protection of domestic payment card providers or payment processing providers. Most notably, none of our financial institution clients in China have received authorization to issue cards carrying only our brands for domestic use in China, limiting our opportunities in that market. Regulators in an increasing number of countries around the world, including recently Thailand, Ukraine, the UAE, Mexico, Colombia and Russia, have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries.Regulation of Internet Transactions. Many jurisdictions have adopted or are in the process of adopting new regulations and taxes on Internet transactions. Most notably, we have had to implement compliance programs in response to new U.S. regulations requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions. In addition, the U.S. Congress continues to consider regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and or our clients. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. If implemented, these initiatives could require us or our clients to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would affect our clients directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our clients ability to extend credit by using payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our clients ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. We own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We own numerous valuable trademarks and designs, covering various brands, products, programs and services, which are essential to our business in multiple countries, including, but not limited to Visa, Interlink, PLUS, Visa Electron, the Winged V design, and the Dove design. Through agreements with our clients, we authorize and monitor the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. Competition We compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment, including paper based forms, principally cash and checks; card based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid, private label and 13Table of Contentsother types of general purpose and limited use cards; eCommerce and mobile based platforms and other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automatic clearing house, or ACH, payments and electronic data interchange. Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and intense competition worldwide in the provision of payments services to financial institution clients and their cardholder merchants. The leading global card brands in the general purpose payment card industry are Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Diners Club. Other general purpose card brands are more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the United States. In certain countries, our competitors have leading positions, such as UnionPay in China, which remains the sole domestic inter bank bankcard processor and operates the sole domestic bankcard acceptance mark in China. We also compete against private label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other merchant. In the debit card market segment, Visa and MasterCard are the primary global brands. In addition, our Interlink and Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country specific debit network brands including STAR, NYCE, and PULSE in the United States, EFTPOS in Australia, NETS in Singapore, and Interac in Canada. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the online debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands are the primary brands, and our brands are used primarily to enable cross border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of overall transaction volume. As the payments landscape evolves, we may increasingly face competition from emerging players in the payment space, many of which are non financial institution networks that have departed from the more traditional bank centric business model. The emergence of these potentially competitive networks has primarily been via the online channel with a focus on eCommerce and or mobile technologies. PayPal, Google and Isis are examples. These providers compete with Visa directly in some cases, yet may also be significant partners and customers of Visa. Based on payments volume, total volume and number of transactions, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network in the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major general purpose payment network competitors for calendar year 2011: Company PaymentsVolume TotalVolume TotalTransactions Cards (billions) (billions) (billions) (millions)Visa Inc.(1) $3,768 $6,029 77.6 2,011MasterCard 2,430 3,249 39.8 1,059American Express 808 822 5.3 97Discover 114 122 1.9 59JCB 160 166 1.4 77Diners Club 28 29 0.2 6(1) Visa Inc. figures as reported on Form 8 K filed with the SEC on February 8 and May 2, 2012, respectively. Visa figures represent total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for products carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume. The data presented is reported quarterly by Visas clients on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, clients may update previously submitted information. Sources: MasterCard, American Express, JCB and Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 992 (April 2012). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some prior year figures have been restated. Currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third party issuers. JCB figures include third party issuers and other payment related products. Some figures are estimates. Diners Club figures are for the 12 months ended November 30, 2011. Discover data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 986 (January 2012)U.S. data only and includes business from third party issuers.14Table of ContentsFor more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 14Enterprise wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business included elsewhere in this report. Working Capital RequirementsPayments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring clients represents a substantial daily working capital requirement. U.S. dollar settlements are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance, while settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with industry practice for such transactions. SeasonalityWe generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011 accounted for more than 30% of our fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011 operating revenues.EmployeesAt September 30, 2012, we employed approximately 8,500 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.Additional Information and SEC ReportsVisa Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in May 2007. In October 2007, we undertook a reorganization of the global Visa enterprise. Prior to our reorganization, Visa operated as five corporate entities related by ownership and membership, each of which operated as a separate geographic region. As a result of the reorganization, all except Visa Europe became subsidiaries of Visa Inc. Visa Europe entered into a set of contractual arrangements with Visa Inc. in connection with the reorganization. We completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in March 2008.Our corporate Internet address is http://www.corporate.visa.com. On our investor relations page, accessible through our corporate website and at http://investor.visa.com, we make available, free of charge our annual reports on Forms 10 K, our quarterly reports on Forms 10 Q, our current reports on Forms 8 K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on our website, including the information contained on our investor relations website, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Regulatory RisksAdditional regulation of interchange reimbursement fees may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in a payments network such as ours. In connection with transactions initiated with products in our payments system, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuersthe financial institutions that issue Visa cards to cardholders. The fees are typically paid by acquirersthe financial institutions that offer Visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants. We refer to a system like ours, in which a payment network intermediates between the issuer and the acquirer, as an open loop system. We generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. They are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Consequently, changes to these fees can substantially affect our revenues and the pace or breadth of overall payment electronification. We have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the United States and many other geographies. However, in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates and related practices are subject to continuing or increased government regulation. The Dodd Frank Act has already resulted in limitations on our ability to establish default interchange rates in the debit area in the United States. See The Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. In addition, interchange rates have become subject to continued or increased scrutiny elsewhere, 15Table of Contentsand regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates. These jurisdictions include Australia, Canada, Brazil and South Africa.When we cannot set default interchange rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers find our payments system less attractive. This lowers overall transaction volume and slows growth of transactions. It also may increase the attractiveness of closed loop payments systemsthose with direct connections to both merchants and consumersand other forms of payment. In addition, we believe some issuers are charging new or higher fees to consumers. In some instances, this makes our card programs less desirable and reduces our transaction volumes and profitability. Some acquirers elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of Visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer Visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. In addition, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the fees that we charge in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs. For these reasons, additional regulation of interchange reimbursement fees may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.Additional regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. In order to give Visa branded cardholders a consistent experience, we promote certain practices to ensure that Visa branded cards are processed over our network. We have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the Visa network or receive incentives if they do so. In addition, certain issuers of some products have historically chosen to include only the Visa network. We refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. In addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be interpreted as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co reside on Visa debit cards. For example, Visas rules require that an acquirer must process authorizations for all international transactions through VisaNet and that a member must clear international transactions through VisaNet. These are commonly referred to as routing rules.The Dodd Frank Act already limits our and issuers ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. See The Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Future regulations like the Dodd Frank Act in the United States and elsewhere could materially decrease the number of transactions we process. In order to retain that transaction volume, we would have to reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers or increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers or acquirers or directly to merchants. Any of these eventualities could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.The Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. As of October 1, 2011, in accordance with the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve capped the maximum U.S. debit interchange fee charged by large financial institutions at twenty one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. This amounted to a significant reduction from the average system wide fees charged previously. The Federal Reserve also issued regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. The rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchants ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. These regulations have adversely affected our U.S. debit business and associated revenues. They created negative pressure on our pricing, reduced the volume and number of U.S. debit payments we process, and diminished associated revenues, and, although we believe we have now absorbed their principal impact, they could continue to do so. These pressures have arisen through various channels. A number of our clients obtained fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. Some reduced the number of debit cards they issue and investments they make in marketing and rewards programs. Some imposed new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. Some elected to issue fewer cards enabled with Visa affiliated networks. Many merchants have used the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer cardholders to other networks 16Table of Contentsbased on lowest cost or other factors. Other clients and merchants are likely to take similar actions in the future.The Dodd Frank Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. Although the bureaus future actions may benefit consumers, these actions may also make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit, and prepaid.Some elements of the Dodd Frank Act lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the regulation. Our interpretation may result in our pursuit of strategies less effective than those of our competitors.Overall, the regulations and developments arising from the Dodd Frank Act could continue to have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.New regulations or legal action in one jurisdiction or of one product segment may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products.Regulators around the world increasingly note each others approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. The Dodd Frank Act is one development with such potential. Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product segment may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. For example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could eventually spread to regulate credit.As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product segment. These include matters like interchange reimbursement fees, network exclusivity, preferred routing, dynamic currency conversion, point of sale transaction rules and practices, and operating regulations. Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business. Either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, materially and adversely affecting our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Governments in some countries provide resources or protection to select domestic payment card networks, brands and processing providers. These governments may take this action in order to support these providers. They may also take this action to keep us from entering these countries, to force us to leave, or to restrict substantially our activities there. For example, the government of China continues to maintain regulations that substantially favor China Union Pay, the only retail payments network currently operating in the Chinese domestic market. Additionally, governments in some countries may consider regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments entirely in that country. This would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our clients. Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. Recently, privacy, data use and security have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States and elsewhere. For example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach. These measures may increase our and our clients costs. They may also decrease the number of Visa branded cards our clients issue. This would materially and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. Increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. 17Table of ContentsRegulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. Similarly, the impact of such regulations on our clients may reduce the volume of payments we process. Moreover, such regulations can limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our cards are used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. Any of these occurrences can materially and adversely affect our business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. Examples include: Data Protection and Information Security. Aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the United States and elsewhere. Our financial institution clients in the United States are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. In addition, many U.S. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Anti Money Laundering and Anti Terrorism Financing. The U.S.A. PATRIOT Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions require us to maintain an anti money laundering program. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, restrict us from dealing with certain countries and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. Non U.S. Visa International members may not be similarly restricted, so in some cases third parties could try to use our payments system for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to OFAC administered sanctions. We have controls in place designed to ensure OFAC compliance, but if those controls should fail, we could be subject to penalties, reputational damage and loss of business. Regulation of the Price of Credit. Many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge market based interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. These include the Credit CARD Act in the United States and proposed regulations under it. They also include proposed changes to the Federal Truth in Lending Act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the Credit CARD Act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues.Increased Central Bank Oversight. Several central banks around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the retail electronic payments industry, in some cases designating them as systemically important payment systems. Such oversight may lead to additional regulations. These could include new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. They could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system.Safety and Soundness Regulation. Recent banking regulations enacted in the United States and elsewhere may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to increased risk management or higher capital requirements. Regulation of Internet Transactions. Proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete Internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation or the allocation of intellectual property rights.Money Transfer Regulations. As we expand our product offerings, we may become subject to U.S. state money transfer regulations, increasing regulatory oversight and costs of compliance.Litigation Risks Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments. Our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. These include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential subsequent offerings of our shares of class A common stock (or deposits of cash into the escrow account in lieu of such offerings). They also include a loss sharing agreement and a judgment sharing agreement. In addition, our U.S. members are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to Visa U.S.A.s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. These mechanisms are unique, complicated, and tiered, and if we cannot use one or 18Table of Contentsmore of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent.The principal remaining covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement fees. Since 2005, approximately 55 class actions and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, MasterCard and or other defendants, including certain financial institutions that issue Visa branded payment cards and acquire Visa branded payment transactions in the U.S. We refer to this as the interchange litigation. Among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs have alleged that Visas setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. The lawsuits were transferred to a multi district litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York.The plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees as well as injunctive and other relief. The consolidated class action complaint alleges that the plaintiffs estimate that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. Because these lawsuits were brought under the U.S. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled. The allocation of any monetary judgment or a settlement among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated February 7, 2011. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The Visa portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the omnibus agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our retrospective responsibility plan. The Companys litigation escrow account currently contains an amount that covers our exposure in the interchange litigation as negotiated with the class plaintiffs. On October 19, 2012, we signed settlement agreements in these cases, including an agreement to pay approximately $4 billion to the class plaintiffs. The court granted preliminary approval of the settlement agreement with the class plaintiffs on November 9, 2012. However, the agreement with the class plaintiffs remains subject to final court approval and the adjudication of any appeals. We cannot assure that the court will provide final approval of the settlement or that we will win any appeals. Failure of our retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Such a failure could even cause us to become insolvent. The retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the covered litigation. The plan generally does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. See If we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages. In addition, non monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business. See Limitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our obligations with respect to monetary liabilities from settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it will not insulate us from the monetary impact of all litigation.If we are found liable in other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages. Like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law, or intellectual property law, among others. Examples of such claims are described more fully in Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate the damages. Accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings.Private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us. This is particularly so in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business. If we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, such as the United States or Canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be significant. See Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.If we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future legal proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages. This could result in a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial conditions and could even cause us to become insolvent.19Table of ContentsLimitations on our business resulting from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. We may also have to change our business practices in response to pending or future litigation. For example, in the pending settlement agreement in the interchange litigation, we have agreed, among other things, to permit merchants to add surcharges to credit transactions under certain circumstances.These and other settlements of, or judgments in, past, pending and future litigation could force us to limit further the fees we charge, to revise further our rules about fees charged to consumers who choose to pay with Visa, or to make other modifications to our business. These modifications could materially and adversely affect our payments volume, revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.Tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. We exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. We are currently under examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations in the future. The tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. Failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material and adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. In addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental U.S. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. See also Note 20Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.Our agreement with Visa Europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. Under our framework agreement with Visa Europe, we indemnify it for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their activities and relating to our or their payments business. This obligation applies even if neither we nor any of our related parties or agents participated in the actions giving rise to such claims. Such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. Our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities.Business Risks The intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. We offer incentives to clients in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base. These include up front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance based incentives, marketing support payments and other support. Over the past several years, we have increased the use of incentives such as up front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the United States. In order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. The economic pressures on our clients arising from the Dodd Frank Act have increased this pressure. See The Dodd Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. This pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits.Pressure on client pricing also poses indirect risks, presenting the potential for the same adverse effects. If we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee based services we provide or both. We may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. In addition, we benefit from long term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. Continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on favorable terms. We may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. Finally, increased pricing pressure enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts.Intense competition in our industry may cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and 20Table of Contentsprospects for future growth to suffer. The global payments industry is intensely competitive. Our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. These include cash, checks, and electronic and mobile transactions. In addition, our payment programs compete against the card based payments systems of our competitors and private label cards issued by merchants. The Dodd Frank Act has increased this competitive pressure.Some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may offer a wider range of programs, products and services than we do, including more innovative ones. They may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance than we do. They may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements than we have. Certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. These include domestic networks in the United States, China, Canada, Australia, and other countries and regions. They may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. In many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions.Traditional or untraditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. Our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. The risk to maintaining or securing our clients long term commitments to our products has increased with the Dodd Frank Acts restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. Most of our larger client relationships are not exclusive. These include those with our largest clients: JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. In certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships, sometimes on relatively short notice, and in many cases subject to significant early termination fees. Because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of them. This could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 14Enterprise wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.We expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. For example:competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with or replace the value added services we provide to support our transaction processing;parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain;participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; orcompetition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as mobile payments services, online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ACH payments.Our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth.Disintermediation from the payments value chain would harm our business. Our position in the payments value chain underpins our business. Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and no intermediaries. These competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. The Dodd Frank Act and other regulatory actions have provided and may in the future provide them with increased opportunity to do so. In addition, although they pursue the same or similar lines of business using the same or similar business and commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi party payments systems such as ours.We also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that would rather not use a payment network for processing payments. For example, merchants could process 21Table of Contentstransactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers.Additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in our losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, materially and adversely affecting our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth In the recent past, the banking industry experienced substantial, accelerated consolidation. This could happen again. Significant consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors. This could result in the acquired banks Visa business shifting to that competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. In addition, one or more of our clients could merge with or acquire one of our competitors, shifting its payments volume to that competitor.Additional consolidation in the banking industry could also reduce the overall number of our clients and potential clients and could increase the negotiating power of our remaining clients and potential clients. This consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. In addition, more consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. We may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. Pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and prospects for future growth.Merchants continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement and incentive arrangements. We rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. Consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. Some merchants have sought to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by bringing litigation. If they continue, these efforts could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.We and our clients negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of our payment cards. If merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants. This could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives.Certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Certain financial institutions have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards. These relationships may make it difficult or cost prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. In addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our clients, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Failure to maintain relationships with our clients, merchant acquirers, merchants and vendors, and the failure of clients to provide services on our behalf could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our clients and on their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates, if any, or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. With the exception of several large merchants, historically, we have generally not solicited merchants directly to accept our cards. As a result, the success of our business has depended significantly on, and will continue to depend on, the continued success and competitiveness of our clients and the strength of our relationships with them. In the wake of the Dodd Frank Acts changes to rules on network exclusivity, we have engaged and expect to continue to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants and merchant acquirers and processors. We 22Table of Contentsalready engage in many co branding efforts, in which we contract with the merchant, who directly receives incentive funding. We also engage with merchants and merchant acquirers and processors to provide funding to promote routing and acceptance growth. As these and other relationships take on a greater importance for both merchants and us, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships.In many countries outside the United States, our clients or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. This pattern is increasing with a rise in new systems endorsed by governments. In addition, we historically have not generally had direct relationships with merchants there, and shifting technology and development may further increase such activity. We do not have direct relationships with cardholders. Consequently, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards. Our inability to control the end to end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. In addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. The perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to Visa branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. Our business may be affected by actions taken by our clients that change the perception of our brands. From time to time, our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be subject to challenge, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Further, Visa Europe has very broad latitude to operate the Visa business in and use our brands and technology within Visa Europes region, in which we have only limited control over the operation of the Visa business. Visa Europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the Visa brands in its region, and the strength of the Visa global brands depends in part on the efforts of Visa Europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in Europe. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Finally, because we are domiciled in the United States, a negative perception of the United States arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and cardholders, resulting in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. Unprecedented economic events that began in 2008 continue to affect the financial markets around the world. These include decreased consumer spending; increased unemployment; deflation; increased savings; decreased consumer debt; excess housing inventory; lowered government spending; decreased export activity; continued challenges in the credit environment; continued equity market volatility; additional government intervention; bank instability; downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt; political issues affecting the handling of national debt; and the uncertainty arising from new government policies. This economic turmoil has affected the economies of Europe, the United States and other mature economies in particular. The fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments were to arise. These include defaults on government debt, exhaustion of U.S. and other national economic stimulus packages, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, a significant decline in the commercial real estate market, and policy missteps. Most recently, the economic situation in Europe has been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of a default by Greece, Portugal, Spain and other nations on their debt obligations. If such a default occurs, or if the measures taken to avert such a default create their own instability, economic turmoil is likely to result, and the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. In addition, the so called fiscal cliff in the United Statesthe combination of expiring tax cuts and mandatory reductions in federal spending at the end of 2012has the potential to have an impact on the economy and the stock market.The severity of the economic environment and the response by financial institutions and governments may create new risks or increase the impact of existing ones. These include the following: Depressed consumer and business confidence may continue to decrease cardholder spending. 23Table of ContentsUncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. Our clients may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or additional expense reductions, which may reduce our revenues. Our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, affecting our revenue and reducing cardholders desire to use these products. Our clients may increase cardholder fees as a cost recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, decreasing our value proposition to consumers and reducing consumers desire to use our products.Government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business with those institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. Tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. The trading markets for U.S. government securities may be adversely affected by changes in investor sentiment. This could arise from a number of market forces, including, among others, the U.S. governments inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in its debt rating. This in turn could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are U.S. treasury and government securities.Our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage matters. Adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. The current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, modify fee and loyalty programs, or take other actions that adversely affect the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. Declines in stock prices or significant instability could cause consumer spending to decline materially. Some existing clients have been placed in receivership or under government administration. Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. Many of our clients, merchants that accept our brands, and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely affected. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. A decline in non U.S. and cross border activity and in multi currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions. We generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross border transactions, and our clients pay us fees in connection with them. Some of those fees differ when conversion from the merchants currency to the cardholders billing currency is required. Thus, revenue from processing cross border transactions for our clients fluctuates with cross border activity and the need for transactions to be converted into a different currency. In addition, Visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result from our clients settlement in different currencies. A reduction in multi currency transactions may reduce the need for foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. Limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi currency transactions as result of regulation, litigation, competitive pressures or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues.Cross border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. These include the threat of terrorism, natural disasters, the effects of climate change and outbreaks of diseases. A decline in cross border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A decline in the need for conversion of currencies might also adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, if our clients decide to increase cardholder fees associated with cross border transactions, there could be a decline in cardholder spending, since our value proposition to the consumer could be reduced.Transactions outside the United States represent an increasingly important part of our strategy. In order to continue to grow in those areas, we will need to ensure that we maintain consistency in the types of products we 24Table of Contentsprovide, the quality of our service and the viability of our brand. If we cannot employ our organizational resources effectively, we will be unable to do so. We risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations for which we have provided indemnifications. We indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The term and amount of our indemnification obligations are unlimited, but restricted to the amount of unsettled Visa payment transactions at any point in time.Concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients or several of our smaller clients may exceed our available financial resources, as could systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day. Any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. This could expose us to significant losses, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We estimate settlement at risk (or exposure) based on the sum of three inputs. The first is average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin. The second is four months of rolling average chargebacks volume. The third is the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. Additionally, from time to time, we review and revise our risk management methodology and inputs as necessary. See Note 12Settlement Guarantee Management to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Some of our clients are composed of groups of financial institutions. Some of these clients have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. To the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our products could decline, reducing our revenues and net income. Rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the payments industry. These include developments in smart cards, eCommerce, mobile commerce, and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry wide standards, by resistance to change from clients or merchants or by third parties intellectual property rights. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, climate change or accident. In addition, our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer based attacks. The latter could include computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Any of these incidents could result in a degradation or disruption of our services or damage to our properties, equipment and data. They could also compromise data security. See Account data breaches involving card data stored by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and 25Table of Contentsrevenues. If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. Finally, potential and actual attacks could also result in increased costs, both for recovery and for prevention against future attacks.Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. Because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. Account data breaches involving card data processed, stored or transmitted by third parties or by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. Our clients, merchants, others and we process, store or transmit cardholder account information in connection with Visa branded payment cards. In addition, our clients may use third party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. Breach of the systems processing, storing or transmitting sensitive cardholder data and account information could lead to fraudulent activity involving Visa branded cards, to reputational damage and to claims against us. If we are sued in connection with any material data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. If unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our clients, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. Finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. An increase in fraudulent or other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information. They use the information to conduct fraudulent transactions and to engage in other forms of illegal activities involving the payment system. Outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. As a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using our cards. A rise in fraud levels and other illegal activities involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands. This could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or lead to greater regulation, increasing our compliance costs. Failure to maintain interoperability between our and Visa Europes authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the Visa brands. Visa Europe and we maintain mostly separate authorization, clearing, and settlement systems. As a result, we have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. Visa Europes independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems. Failure to authorize or clear and settle inter territory transactions quickly and accurately could impair the global perception of the Visa brands. Structural and Organizational Risks We have little ability to control Visa Europes operations and limited recourse if it breaches its obligations to us. Visa Europe has very broad rights to operate the Visa business in its region under the agreement that governs our relationship. If we want to change a global rule or to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for Visa Europe and its members, then Visa Europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that Visa Europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. If Visa Europe fails to meet its obligations, our remedies under this agreement are limited. We cannot terminate the agreement even upon Visa Europes material, uncured breach. Although we have a call right to acquire Visa Europe, we can exercise that right under only extremely limited circumstances. These and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. In some instances, as in the case of CyberSource and PlaySpan, Visa Europe may have the right to control 26Table of Contentsthe activities of newly acquired entities within Visa Europes territory. In any event, Visa Europes license rights in Europe may hinder our ability to acquire new entities or to operate them effectively. Any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we can provide could negatively affect cardholders from Visa Europe using cards in the countries we serve or our cardholders using cards in Visa Europes region. If Visa Europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. We have granted Visa Europe a put option requiring us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from its members if exercised. We will incur a financial obligation of several billion dollars or more if Visa Europe exercises this option. Visa Europe may do so at any time. We may need to obtain third party financing in order to meet our obligation, by either borrowing funds or selling stock. An equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. We would have only 285 days to pay the exercise price. Sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. See Note 2Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. If Visa Europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating Visa Europes business and systems into our existing operations. If we cannot do so quickly and cost effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we would become subject to the many regulations of the European Union that govern the operations of Visa Europe, including any regulatory disputes. We are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. We record these adjustments through our consolidated statements of operations. Consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. These quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. The existence of these changes could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the costs involved in raising it. If we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and by the increasingly challenging competitive, economic and regulatory environment. Since our reorganization in October 2007, we have increasingly centralized our management and operations. For us to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout our organization, and incorporate a global perspective into our decisions and processes. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand as rapidly as we plan, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. In addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. We may not be able to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly enough, define our appetite for risk specifically enough, execute our strategy seamlessly enough, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes efficiently enough and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly enough. We may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees. Our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business. Acquisitions, strategic investments and entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. The integration of CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo, all acquired recently, will take time and resources that would otherwise have been available for other acquisitions. We will be subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to Visa Europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in the Visa Europe territory. Regulatory 27Table of Contentsconstraints, particularly competition regulations, may affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of acquisitions or investments. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert managements time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. Moreover, our cash reserves contract to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. Although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. With the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisition or through organic development. These include electronic and mobile payments. Relative inexperience in such businesses requires additional resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and results.Future sales of our class A common stock, or the end of transfer restrictions on our class B stock, could result in dilution to holders of shares of our existing class A common stock, adversely affecting their rights and depressing the market price of our class A common stock. The market price and voting power of our class A common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. The market price of our class A common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class A common stock. Specifically, upon the final resolution of our covered litigation, all class B stock will become transferable at once. If funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class A common stock will be diluted. Under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. At that time, each share of class B common stock will become convertible into an increased number of shares of class A common stock, benefiting the holders of class B common stock. This in turn will result in dilution of the interest in Visa Inc. held by the holders of class A common stock. In this case, the amount of funds released and the market price of our class A common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. Holders of our shares of our class B and C common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class A common stock. Although their voting rights are limited, holders of shares of our class B and C common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. These include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required by Delaware law. The holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class A common stock. Anti takeover provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. For instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. In addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as converted basis. Our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. Since August 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class A, B and C common stock. Any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. Payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our 28Table of Contentsboard of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. If, because of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may be unable to make payments of dividends of our common stock. Furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock, unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class of common stock. ITEM 1B.Unresolved Staff CommentsNot Applicable.ITEM 2.PropertiesAt September 30, 2012, we owned and leased approximately 2.6 million square feet of office and processing center space in 38 countries around the world, of which approximately 1.9 million square feet are owned and the remaining 0.7 million square feet are leased. Our corporate headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay Area and consists of four buildings that we own, totaling 0.9 million square feet. We also own an office building in Miami, totaling approximately 0.2 million square feet.In addition, we own and operate two primary processing centers and an adjacent office facility located in Colorado and Virginia, totaling approximately 0.8 million square feet. We believe that these facilities are suitable and adequate to support our business needs.ITEM 3.Legal ProceedingsRefer to Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.ITEM 4.Mine Safety DisclosuresNot applicable.29Table of ContentsPART II ITEM 5.Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPrice Range of Common StockOur class A common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol V since March 19, 2008. At September 30, 2012, we had 359 stockholders of record of our class A common stock. We believe that the number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of record holders, because a large portion of our class A common stock is held in "street name" by brokers. The following table sets forth the intra day high and low sale prices for our class A common stock in each of our last eight fiscal quarters: 2012High LowFirst Quarter$103.45 $81.71Second Quarter120.70 98.33Third Quarter125.35 111.94Fourth Quarter136.65 119.10 2011High LowFirst Quarter$81.75 $66.50Second Quarter77.08 67.51Third Quarter87.36 73.11Fourth Quarter94.75 76.11There is currently no established public trading market for our class B or class C common stock. There were 1,697 and 1,128 holders of record of our class B common stock and class C common stock, respectively, as of September 30, 2012.Dividend Declaration and PolicyDuring the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, we paid the following quarterly cash dividends per share of our class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and C common stock, on an as converted basis) to all holders of record of our class A, B and C common stock.2012DividendPer ShareFirst Quarter$0.220Second Quarter0.220Third Quarter0.220Fourth Quarter0.220 2011DividendPer ShareFirst Quarter$0.150Second Quarter0.150Third Quarter0.150Fourth Quarter0.150In addition, on October 24, 2012, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.33 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and C common stock, on an as converted basis) payable on December 4, 2012, to holders of record as of November 16, 2012 of our class A, B and C common stock.Subject to legally available funds, we expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding class A, B and C common stock in the future. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement indemnifications, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. 30Table of ContentsIssuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesThe table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases of the Companys common stock made by or on behalf of the Company during the quarter ended September 30, 2012.Period (a)TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased (1) (b)AveragePrice Paidper Share (c)TotalNumber ofSharesPurchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms (2) (d)ApproximateDollar Valueof Shares thatMay Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans orPrograms (2)July 1 31, 2012 $ 1,039,218,694August 1 31, 2012 940,288 $127.39 937,701 919,758,347September 1 30, 2012 625,816 $131.48 625,816 837,464,184Total 1,566,104 $129.02 1,563,517 (1) Includes 2,587 shares of class A common stock withheld at an average price of $130.77 per share (under the terms of grants under our equity incentive compensation plan) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares. (2) During the three months ended September 30, 2012, we repurchased 1.6 million shares of our class A common stock at an average price of $129.02 per share for a total cost of $202 million under share repurchase programs previously authorized by the board of directors in July and February 2012. The figures in the table reflect transactions according to the trade dates. For purposes of our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10 K, the impact of these repurchases is recorded according to the settlement dates. 31Table of ContentsEQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATIONThe table below presents information as of September 30, 2012, for the Visa 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, or the EIP, which was approved by our stockholders. We do not have any equity compensation plans that have not been approved by our stockholders, except as noted in note (2) in the table below. For a description of the awards issued under the EIP, see Note 17Share based Compensation to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.Plan Category(a)Number of sharesof class Acommon stock issuable upon exercise ofoutstanding options Weighted averageexercise price ofoutstanding options Number of shares ofclass Acommon stockremaining available forfuture issuance underequity compensationplans (excluding sharesreflected in column (a))Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders4,509,708(1) $60.99 41,227,174Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders675,967(2) $49.22 Total5,185,675 $59.46 41,227,174 (1) In addition to options, the EIP authorizes the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and other stock based awards. The maximum number of shares issuable as of September 30, 2012, pursuant to outstanding restricted stock units and performance shares totals 637,645 and 526,227, respectively. (2) These shares may be issued upon the exercise of options issued by Visa replacing certain CyberSource options outstanding at the time of the acquisition as discussed further in Note 5Acquisitions and Note 17Share based Compensation to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. These options were issued under certain provisions of the EIP, which permit Visa to issue options in connection with certain acquisition transactions.ITEM 6.Selected Financial DataThe following table presents selected Visa Inc. financial data for fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The data below should be read in conjunction with Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and 
 
ITEM 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThis managements discussion and analysis provides a review of the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and capital resources of Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries (Visa, we, our and the Company) on a historical basis and outlines the factors that have affected recent earnings, as well as those factors that may affect future earnings. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this report.OverviewVisa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments around the world to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We provide our clients with payment processing platforms that encompass consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments. We facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among financial institutions, merchants, consumers, businesses and government entities. Each of these constituencies has played a key role in the ongoing worldwide migration from paper based to electronic forms of payment, and we believe that this transformation continues to yield significant growth opportunities, particularly outside the United States. We continue to explore additional opportunities to enhance our competitive position by expanding the scope of payment services we provide.Overall economic conditions and regulatory environment. Our business is affected by overall economic conditions and consumer spending. Our business performance during fiscal 2012 reflects the impacts of a modest global economic recovery.The Dodd Frank Act. As of October 1, 2011, in accordance with the Dodd Frank Act, the Federal Reserve capped the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. This amounted to a significant reduction from the average system wide interchange fees charged before the Dodd Frank Act was implemented. The Federal Reserve has also issued regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. The rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchants ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. The interchange, exclusivity and routing regulations have impacted our pricing, reduced the number and volume of U.S. debit payments we process and decreased associated revenues. A number of our clients have sought fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. Some have reduced the number of debit cards they issue and reduced investments they make in marketing and rewards programs. Some have imposed new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. Some have elected to issue fewer cards enabled with Visa affiliated networks. Additionally, the routing regulations have allowed merchants to redirect transactions or steer cardholders to other networks based on lowest cost or other factors. We have had to re examine and renegotiate certain of our client contracts to ensure that their terms comply with new regulations and will continue to do so with others. As a result, our clients have sought and will continue to seek to renegotiate terms relating to fees, incentives and routing. In some cases, we may lose placement completely on issuers debit cards.During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we began implementation of our strategy to mitigate the negative impacts from the Dodd Frank Act to some extent by making pricing modifications and working with our clients and other business partners to win merchant preference to route transactions over our network. For fiscal 2012, the overall net impact of the Dodd Frank Act, including restructured pricing, incentives, other mitigation strategies and volume loss, was a decrease of approximately $0.15 in diluted earnings per class A common share.Our broad platform of payment products continues to provide substantial value to both merchants and consumers. We believe that the continuing worldwide secular shift to electronic currency may help buffer the impacts of the Dodd Frank Act, as reflected in our overall payments volume growth, particularly outside the United States. As a leader in the U.S. debit industry, we continue to develop and refine our competitive business models to adapt to the Dodd Frank Act and mitigate some of its negative impacts. We remain committed and prepared to adapt to and compete effectively under this new U.S. debit regulatory environment.Notice of Proposed Adjustment. On May 23, 2012, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) to our fiscal 2008 U.S. federal income tax return seeking to disallow the 34Table of Contentsdeduction of settlement payments associated with the American Express litigation made during that fiscal year. However, on August 15, 2012, the IRS issued a Chief Counsel Advice (CCA), supporting our position that Visa is entitled to the deduction, and subsequently the IRS issued a revised Revenue Agent Report (RAR) effectively withdrawing the NOPA. The IRS may still challenge any income tax return position taken, including the deductibility of covered litigation payments made in fiscal 2008 or any future year, until the statute of limitations has closed for each applicable year. The statute of limitations for fiscal 2008 is expected to expire in June of 2013. However, given the CCA and revised RAR, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we reevaluated and reversed all previously recorded tax reserves and accrued interest associated with uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense recorded in fiscal 2007 through the third quarter of fiscal 2012. This increased our net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 by $627 million. The reversal of tax reserves and related interest included $301 million related to reserves taken in the current year, and $326 million related to reserves taken in previous years.Multidistrict Litigation Proceedings (MDL). On October 19, 2012, Visa, MasterCard, various U.S. financial institution defendants and the class plaintiffs signed a settlement agreement to resolve the class plaintiffs claims in the interchange MDL. We also signed a settlement agreement to resolve the claims brought by a group of individual merchants which were consolidated with the MDL for coordination of pre trial proceedings. The settlement with the class plaintiffs is subject to final court approval, which we cannot assure will be received, and to the adjudication of any appeals. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements.Adjusted financial results. Our financial results for fiscal 2012 and 2011 reflect the impact of several significant items that we believe are not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future years, as they either are non recurring, have no cash impact or are related to amounts covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. As such, we believe the presentation of adjusted financial results excluding the following amounts provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods presented.Reversal of tax reserves. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we reevaluated and reversed all previously recorded tax reserves and accrued interest associated with uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense recorded in fiscal 2007 through the third quarter of fiscal 2012. This increased our net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 by $627 million. The reversal of tax reserves and related interest included $301 million related to reserves taken in the current year, and $326 million related to reserves taken in previous years.Litigation provision. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we recorded a litigation provision of $4.1 billion and related tax benefits associated with the interchange MDL, which is covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. Monetary liabilities from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be paid from the litigation escrow account. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax adjustment. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, our reported financial results benefited from a one time, non cash adjustment of $208 million related to the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities attributable to changes in the California state apportionment rules. Revaluation of Visa Europe put option. During fiscal 2011, we recorded a decrease of $122 million in the fair value of the Visa Europe put option, which resulted in the recognition of non cash, non operating other income in our financial results. This amount is not subject to income tax and therefore had no impact on our reported income tax provision. The reduction in the fair value of the put option was the result of declines in our estimated long term price to earnings ratio as compared to the estimated ratio applicable to Visa Europe and did not reflect any change in the likelihood that Visa Europe will exercise its option. The following table presents our adjusted financial results for the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011. 35Table of Contents Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2011 (in millions, except margin ratio and per share data) Operating Expenses Operating Margin (1) Net Income Attributable to Visa Inc. Diluted Earnings Per Share (2) Operating Expenses Operating Margin (1) Net Income Attributable to Visa Inc. Diluted Earnings Per Share (2)As reported$8,282 21% $2,144 $3.16 $3,732 59% $3,650 $5.16Reversal of tax reserves (326) (0.48) Litigation provision(4,098) 39% 2,593 3.82 Impact of deferred tax adjustment (208) (0.31) Revaluation of Visa Europe put option (122) (0.17)Adjusted$4,184 60% $4,203 $6.20 $3,732 59% $3,528 $4.99Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (as reported) 678 707(1) Operating margin is calculated as operating income divided by total operating revenues. (2) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Diluted earnings per share figures are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented.Reduction in as converted shares. During fiscal 2012, total as converted class A common stock was reduced by 22.8 million shares, using $2.4 billion of operating cash on hand. Of the $2.4 billion, $710 million was used to repurchase class A common stock in the open market. In addition, we made deposits totaling $1.7 billion of operating cash into the litigation escrow account previously established under the retrospective responsibility plan. These deposits have the same economic effect on earnings per share as repurchasing our class A common stock, because they reduce the class B conversion rate and consequently the as converted class A common stock share count. In July 2012, our board of directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program to be in effect through July 2013. As of September 30, 2012, the program had remaining authorized funds of $865 million. In October 2012, our board of directors authorized an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program to be in effect through October 2013. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to July 2012 have been completed.Nominal payments volume and transaction counts. Payments volume is the primary driver for our service revenues, and processed transactions are the primary driver for our data processing revenues. Compared to the prior year, overall payments volume increased as a result of continuing double digit percentage growth in consumer credit and commercial payments volume worldwide. These increases were moderated by an anticipated deceleration in consumer debit growth, primarily due to the impacts of the Dodd Frank Act. Excluding U.S. debit transactions, which reflect the impacts of the Dodd Frank Act, the number of processed transactions continues to increase at a healthy rate, reflecting the continuing worldwide shift to electronic currency.The following tables set forth nominal payments volume for the periods presented in nominal dollars(1).36Table of Contents U.S. Rest of World Visa Inc. 12 monthsendedJune 30,2012 (2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011 (2) %Change 12 monthsendedJune 30,2012 (2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011 (2) %Change 12 monthsendedJune 30,2012 (2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011 (2) %Change (in billions, except percentages)Nominal Payments Volume Consumer credit$710 $641 11% $1,370 $1,188 15% $2,081 $1,829 14%Consumer debit(3)1,045 1,037 1% 333 265 26% 1,378 1,302 6%Commercial and other(3)311 282 10% 130 116 12% 440 398 11%Total Nominal Payments Volume$2,066 $1,961 5% $1,833 $1,569 17% $3,899 $3,530 10%Cash volume430 404 7% 1,921 1,704 13% 2,351 2,108 12%Total Nominal Volume(4)$2,496 $2,364 6% $3,753 $3,273 15% $6,250 $5,638 11% U.S. Rest of World Visa Inc. 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011(2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2010 (2) %Change 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011 (2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2010 (2) %Change 12 monthsendedJune 30,2011 (2) 12 monthsendedJune 30,2010 (2) %Change (in billions, except percentages)Nominal Payments Volume Consumer credit$641 $599 7% $1,188 $987 20% $1,829 $1,586 15%Consumer debit(3)1,037 909 14% 265 197 34% 1,302 1,107 18%Commercial and other(3)282 243 16% 116 100 15% 398 344 16%Total Nominal Payments Volume$1,961 $1,752 12% $1,569 $1,285 22% $3,530 $3,037 16%Cash volume404 374 8% 1,704 1,411 21% 2,108 1,785 18%Total Nominal Volume(4)$2,364 $2,125 11% $3,273 $2,696 21% $5,638 $4,821 17%(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented. (2) Service revenues in a given quarter are assessed based on payments volume in the prior quarter. Therefore, service revenues reported for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, were based on payments volume reported by our financial institution clients for the twelve months ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (3) Includes prepaid volume.(4) Total nominal volume is the sum of total nominal payments volume and cash volume. Total nominal payments volume is the total monetary value of transactions for goods and services that are purchased. Cash volume generally consists of cash access transactions, balance access transactions, balance transfers and convenience checks. Total nominal volume is provided by our financial institution clients, subject to verification by Visa. From time to time, previously submitted volume information may be updated. Prior year volume information presented in these tables has not been updated, as subsequent adjustments were not material. The table below provides the number of transactions processed by our VisaNet system, and billable transactions processed by CyberSources network during the fiscal periods presented. 37Table of Contents 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011% Change (1) 2011 vs. 2010% Change (1) (in millions) Visa processed transactions(2)53,324 50,922 45,411 5% 12%CyberSource billable transactions(3)5,182 4,137 3,032(4) 25% 36%(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented.(2) Represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visas networks. (3) Transactions include, but are not limited to, authorization, settlement payment network connectivity, fraud management, payment security management, tax services and delivery address verification. Since its July 2010 acquisition, CyberSource activity has primarily contributed to our data processing revenues. (4) Includes CyberSource transactions prior to the July 2010 acquisition.Results of Operations Operating Revenues Our operating revenues are primarily generated from payments volume on Visa branded cards for goods and services, as well as the number, size and type of transactions processed on our payment processing platforms. We do not earn revenues from, or bear credit risk with respect to, interest or fees paid by cardholders on Visa branded cards. Our issuing clients have the responsibility for issuing cards and determining the interest rates and fees paid by cardholders, and most other competitive card features. We generally do not earn revenues from the fees that merchants are charged for card acceptance by the issuing bank, including the merchant discount rate. Our acquiring clients, which are generally responsible for soliciting merchants, establish and earn these fees. The following sets forth the components of our operating revenues: Service revenues consist primarily of revenues earned for providing clients with a supported global business infrastructure and for services which support the various product platforms that enable clients to deliver Visa products and payment services. Current quarter service revenues are primarily assessed using a calculation of pricing applied to the prior quarters payments volume. Service revenues also include assessments designed to support ongoing acceptance and volume growth initiatives, which are recognized in the same period the related volume is transacted. Data processing revenues are earned for authorization, clearing, settlement, transaction processing services, network access and other maintenance and support services that facilitate transaction and information processing among our clients globally and Visa Europe. Data processing revenues are also earned for transactions processed by CyberSources online payment gateway and PlaySpans virtual goods payment platform. Data processing revenues are recognized in the same period the related transactions occur or services are rendered. International transaction revenues are earned for processing cross border transactions, and currency conversion activities. Cross border transactions arise when the cardholders issuer country is different from the merchants country. International transaction revenues are generally driven by cross border payments and cash volume.Other revenues consist primarily of license fees for use of the Visa brand, revenues earned from Visa Europe in connection with the Visa Europe Framework Agreement, fees from cardholder services, licensing and certification and certain activities related to our acquired entities. Other revenues also include optional service or product enhancements, such as extended cardholder protection and concierge services. Client incentives represent contracts with clients and other business partners for various programs designed to build payments volume, increase product acceptance and win merchant preference to route transactions over our network. These incentives are primarily accounted for as reductions to operating revenues. Operating Expenses Personnel includes salaries, incentive compensation, stock based compensation, fringe benefits and contractor expense. Network and processing primarily represents expenses for the operation of our processing network, including maintenance, equipment rental and fees for other data processing services. 38Table of ContentsMarketing includes expenses associated with advertising and marketing campaigns, sponsorships and other related promotions to promote the Visa brand. Professional fees consist of fees for consulting, legal and other professional services. Depreciation and amortization includes depreciation expense for property and equipment, as well as amortization of purchased and internally developed software. Also included in this amount is amortization of finite lived intangible assets primarily obtained through acquisitions. General and administrative primarily consists of facilities costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and other corporate expenses in support of our business. Litigation provision is an estimate of litigation expense and is based on managements understanding of our litigation profile, the specifics of the cases, advice of counsel to the extent appropriate and managements best estimate of incurred loss at the balance sheet dates. Other Income (Expense) Interest income (expense) primarily includes accrued interest and penalties related to reserves for uncertain tax positions. Investment income represents returns on our fixed income securities and other investments. Investment income also includes gains on the sale of and cash dividends received from other investments.Other non operating income primarily relates to gains and losses earned on equity method investments and the change in the fair value of the Visa Europe put option. Visa Inc. Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010Operating Revenues The following table sets forth our operating revenues earned in the United States, in the rest of the world and from Visa Europe. Revenues earned from Visa Europe are a result of our contractual arrangement with Visa Europe, as governed by the Framework Agreement that provides for trademark and technology licenses and bilateral services. See Note 2Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements. Fiscal Year endedSeptember 30, $ Change % Change(1) 2012 2011 2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 (in millions, except percentages)U.S.$5,720 $5,135 $4,718 $585 $417 11% 9 %Rest of world4,478 3,846 3,137 632 709 16% 23 %Visa Europe223 207 210 16 (3) 7% (1)%Total Operating Revenues$10,421 $9,188 $8,065 $1,233 $1,123 13% 14 %(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented.The increase in operating revenues primarily reflects continued growth in our underlying business drivers: nominal payments volume, processed transactions and cross border volume. Operating revenues also benefited from pricing modifications made on various services. These benefits were partially offset by volume loss and increases to client incentives implemented in the U.S. during fiscal 2012 as part of our strategy to mitigate the impacts of the Dodd Frank Act. We expect low double digit percentage growth in our operating revenues for the full 2013 fiscal year.Our operating revenues, primarily service revenues and international transaction revenues, are impacted by the overall strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar as payments volume and related revenues denominated in local currencies are converted to U.S. dollars. There was no significant impact on the year over year growth for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, as the effect of exchange rate movements was substantially mitigated through our 39Table of Contentshedging program. We expect the impacts of our hedging program to continue to minimize the effect of exchange rate movements during fiscal 2013. See Note 13Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements.The following table sets forth the components of our total operating revenues: Fiscal Year endedSeptember 30, $ Change % Change(1) 2012 2011 2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 (in millions, except percentages)Service revenues$4,872 $4,261 $3,497 $611 $764 14% 22 %Data processing revenues3,975 3,478 3,125 497 353 14% 11 %International transaction revenues3,025 2,674 2,290 351 384 13% 17 %Other revenues704 655 713 49 (58) 7% (8)%Client incentives(2,155) (1,880) (1,560) (275) (320) 15% 21 %Total Operating Revenues$10,421 $9,188 $8,065 $1,233 $1,123 13% 14 %(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented. Service revenues increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to 10% growth in nominal payments volume. The growth in service revenues was greater than the growth in nominal payments volume primarily reflecting differences in geography specific pricing. Service revenues increased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to 16% growth in nominal payments volume combined with benefits from competitive pricing actions. Data processing revenues increased in fiscal 2012 primarily as a result of the implementation of our strategy to mitigate the negative impacts from the Dodd Frank Act to some extent through pricing modifications and working with our clients and other business partners to win merchant preference to route transactions over our network. This price restructuring included the implementation of the Fixed Acquirer Network Fee, which was partially offset by reductions in certain variable fees. While data processing fees benefited from the price restructuring that became effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, increased merchant and acquirer incentives executed as part of this strategy resulted in higher client incentive levels, which partially offset this increase. Data processing revenues for fiscal 2012 also benefited from overall growth in processed transactions of 5%, which reflected an anticipated decline in U.S. debit transactions processed as a result of certain provisions of the Dodd Frank Act becoming effective the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The deceleration in processed transaction growth was led by Interlink, one of our lowest yielding products in the U.S., which decreased 51% in the second half of fiscal 2012 compared to the same prior year period. This negative impact was more than offset by solid growth in CyberSource billable transactions, Visa transactions processed outside of the U.S., U.S. credit transactions and Visa Debit transactions, which exclude Interlink.Data processing revenues increased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to 12% growth in processed transactions and inclusion of a full year of revenue attributable to CyberSource. This growth was partially offset by the effects of negotiated pricing from certain client contracts and a change to present revenues and offsetting expenses associated with the processing of non Visa network transactions on a net basis instead of a gross basis. International transaction revenues increased in fiscal 2012 and 2011 primarily reflecting 11% and 18% growth in nominal cross border volume, respectively.Other revenues increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to an increase in license fees as a result of payments volume growth. Other revenues decreased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to a change to present revenues and offsetting expenses related to the Visa Extras rewards program on a net basis instead of a gross basis, and as a result of a large issuer that converted away from the platform entirely in June 2010. The decrease was partially offset by increases in license fees and the inclusion of revenue from our acquired entities. 40Table of ContentsClient incentives increased in fiscal 2012 reflecting incentives incurred on long term client contracts that were initiated or renewed during fiscal 2012, including a number of significant long term merchant and acquirer contracts executed as part of our strategy to mitigate the impact of the Dodd Frank Act. Client incentives also increased as a result of overall growth in global payments volume and certain one time incentives incurred outside the U.S. The amount of client incentives we record in future periods will vary based on changes in performance expectations, actual client performance, amendments to existing contracts or the execution of new contracts. We expect incentives as a percentage of gross revenues to be in the range of 18% to 18.5% for the full 2013 fiscal year.Increases in client incentives during fiscal 2011 reflected growth in global payments volume and incentives incurred on significant long term client contracts that were initiated or renewed during fiscal 2011.Operating ExpensesThe following table sets forth components of our total operating expenses for the periods presented. Fiscal Year endedSeptember 30, $ Change % Change(1) 2012 2011 2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 (in millions, except percentages)Personnel$1,726 $1,459 $1,222 $267 $237 18% 19 %Network and processing414 357 425 57 (68) 16% (16)%Marketing873 870 964 3 (94) % (10)%Professional fees385 337 286 48 51 14% 18 %Depreciation and amortization333 288 265 45 23 16% 9 %General and administrative451 414 359 37 55 9% 15 %Litigation provision4,100 7 (45) 4,093 52 NM NMTotal Operating Expenses (2)$8,282 $3,732 $3,476 $4,550 $256 NM 7 %(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented.(2) Excluding the litigation provision of $4.1 billion recorded in fiscal 2012, associated with litigation covered by the retrospective responsibility plan, operating expenses for fiscal 2012 were $4.2 billion, an increase of 12% over the prior year on an adjusted basis.Personnel increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to increases in headcount throughout the organization combined with higher employee incentive related costs. The increase also reflects annualized costs from our acquisitions of PlaySpan and Fundamo in March 2011 and June 2011, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2011 primarily reflects the inclusion of new employees from our acquisitions of CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo. The increases in headcount reflect our strategy to invest for future growth, particularly outside the U.S., in support of our core business, as well as our eCommerce and mobile initiatives. Network and processing increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher fees paid for the operation of our processing network attributable to increased transaction volumes.The decrease in fiscal 2011 reflects the change to present revenues and offsetting expenses associated with the processing of non Visa network transactions on a net basis instead of on a gross basis. This decline was partially offset by increased investment in technology projects and the inclusion of CyberSource and PlaySpan activities. Marketing remained flat in fiscal 2012 despite an increase in spending to support new product initiatives and our sponsorship of the 2012 Summer Olympics. We expect to incur under $1 billion of marketing expense in fiscal 2013, including incremental investment to support our key country growth strategies and new product initiatives. The decrease in fiscal 2011 primarily reflects a change to present revenues and offsetting expenses related to the Visa Extras rewards program on a net basis instead of on a gross basis, combined with the 41Table of Contentsimpact of a large issuer converting away from the platform entirely in June 2010. The decline in marketing expense also reflects the absence of spending associated with the 2010 Winter Olympics and the 2010 FIFA World Cup incurred in the prior year. The decline was partially offset by the inclusion of CyberSource activity. Professional fees increased in fiscal 2012 and 2011, primarily reflecting greater investment in technology projects to support our eCommerce and mobile initiatives.Depreciation and amortization increased in fiscal 2012, primarily due to additional depreciation expense from our ongoing investments in technology assets and infrastructure to support our core business as well as our eCommerce and mobile initiatives.The increase in fiscal 2011 primarily reflects the impact of newly acquired technology and intangible assets from our acquisitions of CyberSource and PlaySpan in July 2010 and March 2011, respectively, offset by the absence of depreciation and amortization on the incremental basis in assets recorded in our October 2007 reorganization, as these assets were fully depreciated as of September 30, 2010. See Note 5Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements.General and administrative increased primarily due to travel activities in support of our international expansion, combined with the absence of unrealized foreign exchange gains recorded in fiscal 2011 upon the remeasurement of monetary asset and liabilities held by foreign subsidiaries into their functional currencies. The increase in fiscal 2011 is primarily due to increased travel and the inclusion of CyberSource activity, combined with reserves for a potential government assessment in one of our international geographies in fiscal 2011. Litigation provision in fiscal 2012 reflects a $4.1 billion accrual related to litigation covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. The credit to the provision in fiscal 2010 was primarily the result of a $41 million pre tax gain recognized related to the prepayment of the remaining obligations under the Retailers litigation settlement, combined with the release of accruals for certain other legal matters settled during fiscal 2010. See Note 2Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements.Other Income (Expense)The following table sets forth the components of our other income (expense) for the periods presented. Fiscal Year endedSeptember 30, $ Change % Change(1) 2012 2011 2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 2012vs.2011 2011vs.2010 (in millions, except percentages)Interest income (expense)$29 $(32) $(72) $61 $40 NM (55)%Investment income36 108 49 (72) 59 (67)% NMOther3 124 72 (121) 52 (98)% 73 %Total Other Income (Expense)$68 $200 $49 $(132) $151 (66)% NM(1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on whole numbers, not the rounded numbers presented. Interest income for fiscal 2012 reflects the reversal of previously accrued interest associated with tax reserves for uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense. Interest expense in fiscal 2011 reflects lower interest accretion due to declining litigation balances as well as the reversal of previously accrued interest upon the effective settlement of uncertainties surrounding the timing of certain deductions for income tax purposes. See Note 20Income Taxes and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. Investment income includes pre tax gains of $85 million recognized in fiscal 2011 upon the sale of our investment in Visa Vale issuer Companhia Brasileira de Solues e Servios, or CBSS, and $20 million 42Table of Contentsrecognized in fiscal 2010 related to our investment in the Reserve Primary Fund.Other non operating income primarily reflects non cash adjustments to the fair market value of the Visa Europe put option of $122 million and $79 million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The changes in value are not subject to tax, and do not reflect any change in the likelihood that Visa Europe will exercise its option. See Note 2Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements.Effective Income Tax Rate The effective income tax rate of 3% in fiscal 2012 is lower than the effective income tax rate of 36% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, primarily due to the impact of the following in fiscal 2012: the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves associated with uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense;a decrease in our overall state tax rate due to changes in the California apportionment rules and the associated one time, non cash benefit of $208 million from the remeasurement of existing net deferred tax liabilities primarily related to the $11 billion of indefinite lived intangible assets recorded in our 2007 reorganization;a one time benefit recognized upon initial recognition of foreign tax credits;the effect of applying the foregoing adjustments to a pre tax income that was reduced by a $4.1 billion covered litigation provision; andthe absence of nontaxable revaluations of the Visa Europe put option.We expect our fiscal 2013 effective tax rate to increase to a more normalized range of 30% to 32%.Adjusted effective income tax rate. Our financial results for fiscal 2012 reflect the impact of several significant items that we believe are not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future years, as they are either non recurring, have no cash impact or are related to amounts covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. As such, we have presented our adjusted effective income tax rate in the table below, which we believe provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the fiscal year. Our adjusted effective income tax rate for fiscal 2012 excludes: the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves and accrued interest associated with uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense; additional covered litigation provision recorded; and a one time, non cash benefit from the remeasurement of existing net deferred tax liabilities attributable to changes in the California state apportionment rules. Income Before Income TaxesIncome Tax Provision Effective Income Tax Rate (in millions, except for percentages)As reported$2,207 $65 3%Reversal of tax reserves(43) 283 Litigation provision4,098 1,505 Remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities 208 Adjusted$6,262 $2,061 33%Liquidity and Capital ResourcesManagement of Our LiquidityWe regularly evaluate cash requirements for current operations, commitments, development activities and capital expenditures, and we may elect to raise additional funds for these purposes in the future through the issuance of either debt or equity. Our treasury policies provide management with the guidelines and authority to manage liquidity risk in a manner consistent with our corporate objectives.The objectives of our treasury policies are to:provide adequate liquidity to cover operating expenditures and liquidity contingency scenarios;ensure payments on required litigation settlements;ensure timely completion of payments settlement activities; make planned capital investments in our business;pay dividends and repurchase our shares at the discretion of our board of directors; and43Table of Contentsoptimize income earned by investing excess cash in securities that enable us to meet our working capital and liquidity needs.Based on our current cash flow budgets and forecasts of our short term and long term liquidity needs, we believe that our projected sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected liquidity needs for more than the next 12 months. We will continue to assess our liquidity position and potential sources of supplemental liquidity in view of our operating performance, current economic and capital market conditions, and other relevant circumstances.Cash Flow DataThe following table summarizes our cash flow activity for the fiscal years presented: 2012 2011 2010 (in millions)Total cash provided by (used in): Operating activities$5,009 $3,872 $2,691Investing activities(2,414) (2,299) (1,904)Financing activities(2,655) (3,304) (1,542)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents7 (9) 5Decrease in cash and cash equivalents$(53) $(1,740) $(750)Operating activities. Total cash provided by operating activities was higher during fiscal 2012 compared to prior year, primarily reflecting higher operating revenue in fiscal 2012. We believe that cash flow generated from operating activities will be more than sufficient to meet our ongoing operational needs. Total cash provided by operating activities was higher during fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010, primarily reflecting continued growth in our net income and the absence of a $682 million prepayment of our Retailers litigation obligation in fiscal 2010. Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 was relatively consistent, reflecting our continued investment in available for sale securities. See Note 4Fair Value Measurements and Investments to our consolidated financial statements. Comparatively, cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2010 primarily included $1.8 billion for the acquisition of CyberSource. Financing activities. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 reflects our continued commitment to return excess cash to shareholders through reduction in the as converted class A share count, either through purchases in the open market or deposits made into the litigation escrow, and increased dividends. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 15Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from our operations, our investment portfolio, and access to various equity and borrowing arrangements. Funds from operations are maintained in cash and cash equivalents, short term available for sale investment securities, or long term available for sale investment securities based upon our funding requirements, access to liquidity from these holdings, and return that these holdings provide. Funds held by our foreign subsidiaries include cash, cash equivalents and available for sale investment securities, both short and long term. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds, up to the amount of $2.6 billion, which we intend to indefinitely reinvest outside of the U.S. Our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations.Available for sale investment securities. Our investment portfolio is designed to invest excess cash in securities which enable us to meet our working capital and liquidity needs. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury or U.S. government sponsored agencies. The majority of these investments, $3.3 billion, are classified as non current as they have stated maturities of more than one year from the balance sheet date. However, these investments are generally available to meet short term liquidity needs. Factors that may impact the liquidity of our investment portfolio include changes to credit ratings of the securities, uncertainty related to regulatory developments, actions by central banks and other monetary authorities, 44Table of Contentsand the ongoing strength and quality of credit markets. We will continue to review our portfolio in light of evolving market and economic conditions. However, if current market conditions deteriorate, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired, which could adversely impact our financial results. We have policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of investment. See Item 1ARisk Factors.Revolving credit facilities. In February 2008, we entered into a $3.0 billion five year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks including affiliates of certain holders of shares of our class B and class C common stock and certain of our clients and affiliates of our clients. Loans under the five year facility may be in the form of: (1) Base Rate Advance, which will bear interest at a rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the Bank of America prime rate; (2) Eurocurrency Advance, which will bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR (as adjusted for applicable reserve requirements) plus an applicable cost adjustment and an applicable margin of 0.11% to 0.30% based on our credit rating; or (3) U.S. Swing Loan, Euro Swing Loan, or Foreign Currency Swing Loan, which will bear interest at the rate equal to the applicable Swing Loan rate for that currency plus the same applicable margin plus additionally for Euro and Sterling loans, an applicable reserve requirement and cost adjustment. We also agreed to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitment amount, whether used or unused, at a rate ranging from 0.04% to 0.10% and a utilization fee on loans at a rate ranging from 0.05% to 0.10% based on our credit rating. Currently, the applicable margin is 0.15%, the facility fee is 0.05% and the utilization fee is 0.05%. This facility contains certain covenants, including financial covenant requirements relating to a maximum level of debt to EBITDA and events of default customary for financings of this type. This facility expires on February 15, 2013. We are in the process of replacing this facility in fiscal 2013. There were no borrowings under this facility and we were in compliance with all covenants during and at the end of fiscal 2012.U.S. commercial paper program. We maintain a $500 million U.S. commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of unsecured debt with maturities up to 270 days from the date of issuance at interest rates generally extended to companies with comparable credit ratings. The commercial paper program is a source of short term borrowed funds that may be used from time to time to cover short term cash needs. We had no obligations outstanding under this program during and at the end of fiscal 2012. There are no financial covenants related to this program.Universal shelf registration statement. In July 2012, we filed a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission using a shelf registration process. As permitted by the registration statement, we may, from time to time, sell shares of debt or equity securities in one or more transactions. The registration statement expires in July 2015. Litigation escrow account. Pursuant to the terms of the retrospective responsibility plan, we maintain a litigation escrow account from which monetary liabilities from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be payable. When the Company funds the litigation escrow account, the shares of class B common stock held by our stockholders are subject to dilution through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class B common stock to shares of class A common stock. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. The balance in this account at September 30, 2012, was $4.4 billion and is reflected as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet. As these funds are restricted for the sole purpose of making payments related to the covered litigation matters, as described below under Uses of Liquidity, we do not rely on them for other operational needs.Credit RatingsAt September 30, 2012, our credit ratings by Standard and Poors and Moodys were as follows: Standard and Poors MoodysDebt typeRating Outlook Rating OutlookShort term unsecured debtA 1 Stable P 1 StableLong term unsecured debtA+ Stable A1 StableVarious factors affect our credit ratings, including changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the electronic payment industry, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. We do not currently foresee any reasonable circumstances under which our credit ratings would be significantly downgraded. If a downgrade were to occur, it could adversely impact, among other things, our future borrowing costs and access to capital markets. Uses of Liquidity 45Table of ContentsPayments settlement. Payments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring clients represents a substantial daily liquidity requirement. U.S. dollar settlements are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a net receivable or payable balance, while settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with industry practice for such transactions. During fiscal 2012, we often did not need to fund settlement working capital as indicated by the fact that our average daily net settlement position was a payable of $43 million, although our greatest working capital requirement was a peak net settlement receivable balance of $587 million.Covered litigation. We are parties to legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to a variety of matters, including certain litigation that we refer to as the covered litigation. As noted above, monetary liabilities from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation are payable from the litigation escrow account. During fiscal 2012, we made $140 million in covered litigation payments that were funded from the litigation escrow account. At September 30, 2012 the litigation escrow account had an available balance of $4.4 billion. In October 2012, we made an additional payment of $350 million from the litigation escrow account to the Individual Plaintiffs Settlement Fund. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. Other litigation. Judgments in and settlements of litigation, other than the covered litigation, could give rise to future liquidity needs. Reduction in as converted shares. During fiscal 2012, total as converted class A common stock was reduced by 22.8 million shares, using $2.4 billion of operating cash on hand. Of the $2.4 billion, $710 million was used to repurchase class A common stock in the open market. In addition, we made deposits totaling $1.7 billion of operating cash into the litigation escrow account previously established under the retrospective responsibility plan. These deposits have the same economic effect on earnings per share as repurchasing the Companys class A common stock, because they reduce the class B conversion rate and consequently the as converted class A common stock share count. In July 2012, our board of directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program to be in effect through July 2013. At September 30, 2012, this share repurchase program had remaining authorized funds of $865 million. In October 2012, our board of directors authorized an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program to be in effect through October 2013. All share repurchase programs authorized prior to July 2012 have been completed. See Note 15Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements.Dividends. During fiscal 2012, we paid $595 million in dividends. On October 24, 2012, our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.33 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as converted basis). We expect to pay approximately $221 million in connection with this dividend in December 2012. See Note 15Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements. We expect to continue paying quarterly dividends in cash, subject to approval by our board of directors. Class B and class C common stock will share ratably on an as converted basis in such future dividends. Visa Europe put option. We have granted Visa Europe a perpetual put option which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe from its members. Visa Europe may exercise the put option at any time. The put option provides a formula for determining the purchase price of the Visa Europe shares, which subject to certain adjustments, applies Visa Inc.s forward price to earnings multiple, or the "P/E ratio" (as defined in the option agreement) at the time the option is exercised to Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income for the forward 12 month period, or the "adjusted sustainable income" (as defined in the option agreement). The calculation of Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income under the terms of the put option agreement includes potentially material adjustments for cost synergies and other negotiated items. Upon exercise, the key inputs to this formula, including Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income, will be the result of negotiation between us and Visa Europe. The put option provides an arbitration mechanism in the event that the two parties are unable to agree on the ultimate purchase price. At September 30, 2012, we determined the fair value of the put option liability to be approximately $145 million. While this amount represents the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2012, it does not represent the actual purchase price that we may be required to pay if the option is exercised. The purchase price we could be obligated to pay 285 days after exercise will represent a substantial financial obligation, which could be several billion dollars or more. We may need to obtain third party financing, either by borrowing funds or undertaking a subsequent equity offering in order to fund this payment. The amount of that potential obligation could vary dramatically based on, among other things, Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income and our P/E ratio, in each 46Table of Contentscase, as negotiated at the time the put option is exercised. Given the perpetual nature of the put option and the various economic conditions which could be present at the time of exercise, our ultimate obligation in the event of exercise cannot be reliably estimated. The following table calculates our total obligation assuming, for illustrative purposes only, a range of P/E ratios for Visa Inc. and assuming that Visa Europe demonstrates $100 million of adjusted sustainable income at the date of exercise. The $100 million of assumed adjusted sustainable income provided below is for illustrative purposes only. This does not represent an estimate of the amount of adjusted sustainable income Visa Europe would have been able to demonstrate at September 30, 2012, or will be able to demonstrate at any point in time in the future. Should Visa Europe elect to exercise its option, we believe it is likely that it will implement changes in its business operations to move to a for profit model in order to maximize its adjusted sustainable income and, as a result, to increase the purchase price. The table also provides the amount of increase or decrease in the payout, assuming the same range of estimated P/E ratios, for each $25 million of adjusted sustainable income above or below the assumed $100 million demonstrated at the time of exercise. At September 30, 2012, our estimated long term P/E ratio was 16.9x and the long term P/E differential, the difference between this ratio and the estimated ratio applicable to Visa Europe, was 1.9x. At September 30, 2012, the spot P/E ratio was 18.8x and the spot P/E differential, the difference between this ratio and the estimated spot ratio applicable to Visa Europe, was 1.8x. These ratios are for reference purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the ratio or differential that could be applicable if the put option were exercised at any point in the future. Visa Incs ForwardPrice to Earnings Ratio Payout AssumingAdjusted SustainableIncome of $100 million(1) Increase/Decrease in Payoutfor Each $25 million ofAdjusted SustainableIncome Above/Below $100 million (in millions) (in millions) 25 $2,500 $625 20 $2,000 $500 15 $1,500 $375 (1) Given the large range of different economic environments and circumstances under which Visa Europe could decide to exercise its option, the ultimate purchase price could be several billion dollars or more.Pension and other postretirement benefits. We sponsor various qualified and non qualified defined benefit pension plans that generally provide benefits based on years of service, age and eligible compensation. We also sponsor a postretirement benefit plan that provides postretirement medical benefits for retirees and dependents upon meeting minimum age and service requirements. Our policy with respect to our qualified pension plan is to contribute annually not less than the minimum required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA. Our non qualified pension and other postretirement benefit plans are funded on a current basis. We typically fund our qualified pension plan in September of each year. Funding does not impact current period pension expense but has the positive impact of reducing future period expense for the plan. In fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we made contributions to our pension and other postretirement plans of $88 million, $74 million, and $66 million, respectively. In fiscal 2013, we anticipate funding our defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plan by approximately $52 million. The actual contribution amount will vary depending upon the funded status of the pension plan, movements in the discount rate, performance of the plan assets, and related tax consequences. Capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures increased during fiscal 2012 due to investment in technology, infrastructure and growth initiatives. We expect capital expenditures to be in the $425 million to $475 million range in fiscal 2013, as we continue to make ongoing investments in technology assets and payments system infrastructure to support our core business as well as our eCommerce and mobile initiatives. Acquisitions. There were no material acquisitions during fiscal 2012, compared to fiscal 2011, when we acquired PlaySpan and Fundamo for a total of $268 million, net of $22 million in cash received. See Note 5Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements. We will continue to pursue our growth initiatives and to expand our product offerings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships in the future. Fair Value MeasurementsFinancial Instruments The assessment of fair value of our financial instruments is based on a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair 47Table of Contentsvalue. Observable inputs are obtained from independent sources and can be validated by a third party, whereas unobservable inputs reflect assumptions regarding what a third party would use in pricing an asset or liability. As of September 30, 2012, our financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis included approximately $9.8 billion of assets and $168 million of liabilities. Of these instruments, $164 million, or less than 2%, had significant unobservable inputs, with the Visa Europe put option liability constituting $145 million of this amount. At September 30, 2012, debt instruments in this category included $7 million of auction rate securities. See Note 4Fair Value Measurements and Investments to our consolidated financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements are primarily comprised of guarantees and indemnifications. Visa has no off balance sheet debt, other than lease and purchase order commitments as discussed below and reflected in our contractual obligations table. Indemnifications We indemnify clients for settlement losses suffered by failure of any other customer to honor Visa cards, travelers cheques, or other instruments processed in accordance with our operating regulations. The amount of the indemnification is limited to the amount of unsettled Visa payment transactions at any point in time. We maintain global credit settlement risk policies and procedures to manage settlement risk which may require clients to post collateral if certain credit standards are not met. See Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 12Settlement Guarantee Management to our consolidated financial statements.In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements with financial institutions and other clients under which we may agree to indemnify the client for certain types of losses incurred relating to the services we provide or otherwise relating to our performance under the applicable agreement. Contractual Obligations Our contractual commitments will have an impact on our future liquidity. The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both on and off balance sheet transactions that represent a material expected or contractually committed future obligation as of September 30, 2012. We believe that we will be able to fund these obligations through cash generated from our operations and available credit facilities, or the litigation escrow account. Payments Due by Period Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than5 Years Total (in millions)Purchase orders(1)$847 $148 $48 $ $1,043Leases(2)101 123 63 64 351Client incentives(3)2,537 3,509 2,025 582 8,653Marketing and sponsorship(4)120 237 115 231 703Litigation settlement payments(5)4,383 4,383Dividends(6)221 221Total(7,8,9)$8,209 $4,017 $2,251 $877 $15,354(1) Represents agreements to purchase goods and services that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. (2) Includes both operating and capital leases for premises, equipment and software licenses, which range in terms from one to eighteen years. (3) Represents future cash payments for incentive agreements with select clients under various programs designed to build payments volume, increase acceptance and win merchant preference to route transactions over our network. These agreements, which range in terms from one to thirteen years, can provide card issuance and or conversion support, volume / growth targets and marketing and program support based on specific performance requirements. Payments under these agreements will generally be offset by revenues earned from higher corresponding payments and transaction volumes. These payment amounts are estimates and will change based on customer performance, amendments to existing contracts or execution of new contracts. Related amounts disclosed in Note 18Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements 48Table of Contentsrepresent the associated expected reduction of revenue related to these agreements which we estimate we will record. (4) Visa is a party to contractual sponsorship agreements ranging from approximately three to sixteen years. These contracts are designed to help increase Visa branded cards and volumes. Over the life of these contracts, Visa is required to make payments in exchange for certain advertising and promotional rights. In connection with these contractual commitments, Visa has an obligation to spend certain minimum amounts for advertising and marketing promotion over the life of the contract. For obligations where the individual years of spend are not specified in the contract, we have estimated the timing of when these amounts will be spent. (5) Visa, MasterCard, various U.S. financial institution defendants, and the class plaintiffs signed a settlement agreement to resolve the class plaintiffs claims in the interchange multidistrict litigation proceedings on October 19, 2012. The amount in the table represents the maximum amount expected to be paid out in fiscal 2013 under the class plaintiffs settlement agreement and the individual plaintiffs settlement agreement from the litigation escrow account. This amount includes the $350 million payment to the Individual Plaintiffs Settlement Fund made in October 2012. A litigation provision of $4.1 billion for the covered litigation was booked during fiscal 2012. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. (6) Includes expected dividend amount of $221 million as dividends were declared on October 24, 2012 and will be paid on December 4, 2012 to all holders of record of Visas common stock as of November 16, 2012. (7) We have liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $139 million. At September 30, 2012, we also accrued $20 million of interest and $7 million of penalties associated with our uncertain tax positions. We cannot determine the range of cash payments that will be made and the timing of the cash settlements, if any, associated with our uncertain tax positions. Therefore, no amounts related to these obligations have been included in the table.(8) Visa granted a perpetual put option to Visa Europe, which if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe from its members. Due to the perpetual nature of the instrument and the various economic conditions, which could exist when the put is exercised, the ultimate amount and timing of Visas obligation, if any, cannot be reliably estimated. Therefore, no amounts related to this obligation have been included in the table. However, given the range of different economic environments and circumstances under which Visa Europe could exercise its option, the ultimate purchase price could be several billion dollars or more. The fair value of the Visa Europe put option itself totaling $145 million at September 30, 2012 has also been excluded from this table as it does not represent the amount or an estimate of the amount of Visas obligation in the event of exercise. See Liquidity and Critical Accounting Estimates sections of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements. (9) We evaluate the need to make contributions to our pension plan after considering the funded status of the pension plan, movements in the discount rate, performance of the plan assets and related tax consequences. Expected contributions to our pension plan have not been included in the table as such amounts are dependent upon the considerations discussed above, and may result in a wide range of amounts. See Note 11Pension, Postretirement and Other Benefits to our consolidated financial statements.Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America which requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. See Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements. We have established policies and control procedures which seek to ensure that estimates and assumptions are appropriately governed and applied consistently from period to period. However, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. We believe that the following accounting estimates are the most critical to fully understand and evaluate our reported financial results, as they require our most subjective or complex management judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Revenue RecognitionClient Incentives Critical Estimates. We enter into incentive agreements with select clients and other business partners designed to build payments volume, increase product acceptance and win merchant preference to route transactions over our network. These incentives are primarily accounted for as reductions to operating revenues; however, if a separate identifiable benefit at fair value can be established they are accounted for as operating expenses. We generally capitalize advance incentive payments under these agreements if select criteria are met. 49Table of ContentsThe capitalization criteria include the existence of future economic benefits to Visa, the existence of legally enforceable recoverability clauses, such as early termination clauses, managements ability and intent to enforce the recoverability clauses and the ability to generate future earnings from the agreement in excess of amounts deferred. Capitalized amounts are amortized over the shorter of the period of contractual recoverability or the corresponding period of economic benefit. Incentives not yet paid are accrued systematically and rationally based on managements estimate of each clients performance. These accruals are regularly reviewed and estimates of performance are adjusted as appropriate, based on changes in performance expectations, actual client performance, amendments to existing contracts or the execution of new contractsAssumptions and Judgment. Estimation of client incentives relies on forecasts of payments volume, card issuance and card conversion. Performance is estimated using customer reported information, transactional information accumulated from our systems, historical information and discussions with our clients. Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions. If our clients actual performance or recoverable cash flows are not consistent with our estimates, client incentives may be materially different than initially recorded. Increases in incentive payments are generally driven by increased payments and transaction volume, which drive our net revenue. As a result, in the event incentive payments exceed estimates, such payments are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period such revisions become probable and estimable. For the year ended September 30, 2012, client incentives represented 17% of gross operating revenues.Fair ValueVisa Europe Put Option Critical Estimates. We have granted Visa Europe a perpetual put option which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe from its members. The put option provides a formula for determining the purchase price of the Visa Europe shares, which, subject to certain adjustments, applies our forward price to earnings multiple, or the P/E ratio (as defined in the option agreement), at the time the option is exercised to Visa Europes projected adjusted sustainable income for the forward 12 month period, or the adjusted sustainable income (as defined in the option agreement). The calculation of Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income under the terms of the put option agreement includes potentially material adjustments for cost synergies and other negotiated items. Upon exercise, the key inputs to this formula, including Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income, will be the result of negotiation between us and Visa Europe. The put option provides an arbitration mechanism in the event that the two parties are unable to agree on the ultimate purchase price. See Note 2Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements for further detail regarding the calculation of the put exercise price under the agreement. The fair value of Visa Europes option was estimated to be approximately $145 million at September 30, 2012. While the put option is in fact non transferable, this amount, recorded in our financial statements, represents our estimate of the amount we would be required to pay a third party market participant to transfer the potential obligation in an orderly transaction. The fair value of the put option is computed by comparing the estimated strike price, under the terms of the put agreement, to the estimated fair value of Visa Europe. The fair value of Visa Europe is defined as the estimated amount a third party market participant might pay in an arms length transaction under normal business conditions. A probability of exercise assumption is applied to reflect the possibility that Visa Europe will never exercise its option. While this amount represents the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2012, it does not represent the actual purchase price that we may be required to pay if the option is exercised, which could be several billion dollars or more. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion. Assumptions and Judgment. The most significant estimates used in the valuation of the put option are the assumed probability that Visa Europe will elect to exercise its option and the estimated differential between the forward price to earnings multiple applicable to our common stock, as defined in the put option agreement, and that applicable to Visa Europe on a stand alone basis at the time of exercise, which we refer to as the P/E differential. Probability of ExerciseExercise of the put option is at the sole discretion of Visa Europe (on behalf of the Visa Europe shareholders pursuant to authority granted to Visa Europe, under its Articles of Association). We estimate the assumed probability of exercise based on reasonably available information including, but not limited to: 50Table of Contents(i) Visa Europes stated intentions; (ii) indications that Visa Europe is preparing to exercise as reflected in its reported financial results; (iii) evaluation of market conditions, including the regulatory environment, that could impact the potential future profitability of Visa Europe; and (iv) qualitative factors applicable to Visa Europes largest members, which could indicate a change in their need or desire to liquidate their investment holdings. P/E DifferentialThe P/E differential is determined by estimating the relative difference in the forward price to earnings multiples applicable to our common stock, as defined in the put option agreement, and that applicable to Visa Europe at the time of exercise. For valuation purposes, the forward price to earnings multiple applicable to our common stock at the time of exercise is estimated by evaluating various quantitative measures and qualitative factors. Quantitatively, we estimate our P/E ratio by dividing the average stock price over the preceding 24 months (the long term P/E calculation) and the last 30 trading dates (the 30 day P/E calculation) prior to the measurement date by the median estimate of our net income per share for the 12 months starting with the next calendar quarter immediately following the reporting date. This median earnings estimate is obtained from the Institutional Brokers Estimate System (I/B/E/S). We then determine the best estimate of our long term price to earnings multiple for valuation purposes by qualitatively evaluating the 30 day P/E calculation as compared to the long term P/E calculation. In this evaluation we examine both measures to determine whether differences, if any, are the result of a fundamental change in our long term value or the result of short term market volatility or other non Company specific market factors that may not be indicative of our long term forward P/E. We believe, given the perpetual nature of the put option, that a market participant would more heavily weight long term value indicators, as opposed to short term indicators. Factors that might indicate a fundamental change in long term value include, but are not limited to, changes in the regulatory environment, client portfolio, long term growth rates or new product innovation. A consistent methodology is applied to a group of comparable public companies used to estimate the forward price to earnings multiple applicable to Visa Europe. These estimates, therefore, are impacted by changes in stock prices and the financial markets expectations of our future earnings and those of the comparable companies. Other estimates of lesser significance include growth rates and foreign currency exchange rates applied in the calculation of Visa Europes adjusted sustainable income. The valuation model assumes a large range of annual growth rates, reflecting the different economic environments and circumstances under which Visa Europe could decide to exercise. The lowest growth rates assumed reflect Visa Europes current business model as an association, owned by its member banks, while the highest reflect a successful shift to a for profit model in anticipation of exercise. The scenarios with higher growth rates are assigned a significantly higher probability in the valuation model, as we believe a market participant would more heavily weight these scenarios as it is likely that, should it choose to exercise its option, Visa Europe will seek to maximize the purchase price by adopting a for profit business model in advance of exercising the put option. The foreign exchange rate used to translate Visa Europes results from Euros to U.S. dollars reflects a blend of forward exchange rates observed in the marketplace. The assumed timing of exercise of the put option used in the various modeled scenarios is not an overly significant assumption in the valuation, as obligations calculated in later years are more heavily discounted in the calculation of present value. Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions. In the determination of the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2012, we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by Visa Europe at some point in the future and an estimated long term P/E differential at the time of exercise of approximately 1.9x. The use of a probability of exercise that is 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $18 million in the value of the put option. An increase of 1.0x in the assumed P/E differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $84 million in the value of the put option. The put option is exercisable at any time at the sole discretion of Visa Europe. As such, the put option liability is included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2012. Classification in current liabilities is not an indication of managements expectation of exercise and simply reflects the fact that this obligation could become payable within 12 months. Legal and Regulatory Matters Critical Estimates. We are currently involved in various legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are not within our complete control or may not be known for prolonged periods of time. Management is required to assess the probability of loss and amount of such loss, if any, in preparing our financial statements. Assumptions and Judgment. We evaluate the likelihood of a potential loss from legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. We record a liability for such claims when a loss is deemed probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment may be required in the determination of both probability 51Table of Contentsand whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses and consultation with in house and outside legal counsel. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise our estimates. Our retrospective responsibility plan only addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation. The plans mechanisms include the use of the litigation escrow account. The accrual related to the covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the litigation escrow account balance. We recorded an additional accrual of $4.1 billion for the covered litigation during fiscal 2012. See Note 3Retrospective Responsibility Plan and Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory processes in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may be materially different than the actual outcomes, which could have material adverse effects on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. See Note 21Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes Critical Estimates. In calculating our effective tax rate, we make judgments regarding certain tax positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. Assumptions and Judgment. We have various tax filing positions with regard to the timing and amount of deductions and credits, the establishment of liabilities for uncertain tax positions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We are also required to inventory, evaluate and measure all uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on tax returns and to record liabilities for the amount of such positions that may not be sustained, or may only be partially sustained, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities. Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions. Although we believe that our estimates and judgments are reasonable, actual results may differ from these estimates. Some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities. If one or more of the taxing authorities were to successfully challenge our right to realize some or all of the tax benefit we have recorded, and we were unable to realize this benefit, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskMarket risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. Our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. Aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate RiskAlthough most of our activities are transacted in U.S. dollars, we are exposed to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are primarily related to adverse changes in the U.S. dollar value of revenues generated from foreign currency denominated transactions and adverse changes in the U.S. dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for expenses at our non U.S. locations. We manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the U.S. dollar equivalent of anticipated non U.S. dollar denominated cash flows. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. The aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program were $739 million and $651 million at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The aggregate notional amount of $739 million outstanding at September 30, 2012, is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. However, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change of the U.S. dollar is estimated to create an additional fair value gain or loss of approximately $40 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at September 30, 2012. See Note 13Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements.We are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. This risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency 52Table of Contentspositions. Risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of Visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties. Interest Rate RiskOur investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed rate and adjustable rate securities. These assets are included in cash equivalents, short term available for sale investments and long term available for sale investments. Investments in fixed rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. The fair value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. Additionally, a falling rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. Historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. Our operating results or cash flows have not been, and are not expected to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. The fair value balances of our fixed rate investment securities at September 30, 2012 and 2011 were $3.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would create an estimated change in fair value of approximately $42 million on our fixed rate investment securities at September 30, 2012. The fair value balances of our adjustable rate debt securities were $923 million and $764 million at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Visa Europe Put OptionWe have a liability related to the put option with Visa Europe which is recorded at fair value at September 30, 2012. We are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. In the determination of the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2012, we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by Visa Europe at some point in the future and a P/E differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 1.9x. The use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $18 million in the value of the put option. An increase of 1.0x in the assumed P/E differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $84 million in the value of the put option. See Liquidity and Capital Resources and Critical Accounting Estimates above. Pension Plan RiskOur U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets were $973 million and $783 million and projected benefit obligations were $990 million and $839 million at September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and or the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the plan, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. We will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the plan for fiscal 2013, which we expect to make in September 2013. 53Table of Contents
 
