Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") contains certain forward looking statements and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs and assumptions made by the Companys management as well as information currently available to management. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect" and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. The Company does not intend to update these forward lookin g statements except as may be required by law. Critical Accounting Policies and Business Practices Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of the significant accounting policies that are used by the Company. Many of these accounting policies require the use of estimates. Critical accounting estimates, which are both important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and which require complex, subjective judgments, are as follows: Basis of Revenue Recognition In October 2000, the Company announced a shift to its new Business Model, offering customers the flexibility and freedom to adapt to rapidly changing enterprise requirements while reducing the risks and costs associated with traditional software licensing models. Under the new Business Model, customers can determine the length and dollar value of their software licenses. The new Business Model provides customers with the flexibility to subscribe to software under month to month licenses or choose cost certainty by committing to a longer term arrangement. The new Business Model also permits customers to vary their software mix as their business and technology needs change, including the right to receive unspecified future software within designated product lines. The Company believes the new Business Model improves the visibility and predictability of the Companys revenue streams by recognizing license revenue on a ratable basis rather than on an up front one time basis as the Company did prior to the quarter ended December 31, 2000. The terms of these new arrangements are structured such that product revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the license on a monthly basis which has impacted the Companys reported revenue on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") basis. The portion of the license arrangement that is not recognized as revenue creates deferred subscription revenue which will be recognized as revenue over the remaining term of the arrangement. Prior to the introduction of the new Business Model, maintenance revenue was bundled for a portion of the term of the license arrangement. Under these arrangements, the maintenance, which was based on optional annual renewal rates stated in the arrangement, initially was deferred and subsequently amortized into revenue over the initial contractual term of the arrangement. Maintenance renewals have been recognized ratably over the term of the renewal arrangement. For arrangements executed under the new Business Model, maintenance is bundled for the entire term of the license arrangement. Under these arrangements, maintenance revenue is recognized ratably as subscription revenue over the term of the license arrangement, along with the license fee, commencing upon delivery of the currently available software products. Financing fees result from the initial discounting to present value of product sales with extended payment terms under the Companys old Business Model and the subsequent increase of receivables to the amount due and payable by customers. Financing fees will continue to decrease as they are amortized over the arrangement term. Accounts Receivable As detailed in the table included in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, at March 31, 2002, net accounts receivable, after accounting for unearned revenue and the allowance for doubtful accounts, is $3.391 billion. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts relating to the portion of the accounts receivable that has been recognized as revenue, which the Company does not expect to collect. The Company performs a quarterly analysis to determine the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts. This analysis includes various analytical procedures and a review of factors, including specific individual balances selected from a cross section of the accounts that comprise total accounts receivable, the Companys history of collections of long term contracts, as well as the overall economic environment. The Companys ability to collect its accounts receivable is dependent upon a number of factors including the performance of its products, customer satisfaction with ongoing services, financial condition of customers and general economic conditions. Changes to these factors will influence the amount of the required al lowance. The Company expects the allowance for doubtful accounts to continue to decline as net installment accounts receivable under the old Business Model are billed and collected over the remaining life. Deferred Tax Assets The Company has recognized for financial statement purposes a portion of the tax benefits connected with losses related to operations. This recognition assumes that the Company will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that the carryforward of these losses will be realized. The factors that the Company considers in assessing the likelihood of realization include the forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets are primarily made up of acquisition liabilities, such as duplicate facility, employee severance and other costs, and foreign net operating losses ("NOLs"). The NOLs generally expire between 2003 and 2013. A valuation allowance was established in the year ended March 31, 2002 for certain foreign deferred tax assets the Company believes may not be realized. Adjustments to the val uation allowance may be made in the future if it is determined that the amount of NOLs realized is greater or less than the amount recorded. Valuation of Intangibles Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired by the Company in purchase business combinations. The Company has historically amortized goodwill using the straight line method based on an estimated useful life of 10 to 20 years. In July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"), which provides that intangible assets with finite useful lives be amortized and that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives not be amortized, but rather be tested at least annually for impairment. The Company adopted SFAS 142 effective April 1, 2002. Upon adoption, the Company stopped the amortization of goodwill with an estimated net carrying value of approximately $4.483 billion at March 31, 2002. The Company is having an independent valuation analysis completed and does not anticipate any material transitional impairment; however, future impairment reviews may result in periodic write downs as a result of changes in the valuation analysis. The valuation is based upon the Companys forecast of operating results for the entity that has recorded goodwill, as well as estimates of fair value of the entity and its tangible and intangible assets. The carrying values of purchased software products and other intangible assets are reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances, both internally and externally, that may suggest impairment, which includes an assessment of the net realizable value of capitalized software costs as of the balance sheet date. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on net realizable value for capitalized software and fair value for all other intangibles. Results of Operations The Company distributes and markets its software solutions directly to the end user as well as to distribution partners, resellers or VARs. The Company derives revenues from the following sources: license fees the licensing of the Companys solutions on a right to use basis; maintenance fees the providing of post contract customer support and enhancements; and service fees the providing of professional services such as implementation, consulting and education services. The timing and amount of fees recognized as revenue during a period are determined by the nature of the contractual provisions, such as the term of the arrangement, included in the arrangements with customers. In fiscal year 2002, the average contract life approximated three and a half years, with a Company goal of further reducing it to three years. Prior to December 2000, the Companys software license arrangements included contractual provisions that resulted in the recognition of license fee revenue up front, upon delivery of the attributable software products, assuming the three other prerequisite criteria to recognize revenue were met pursuant to the provisions of AICPA Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 97 2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as amended by SOP No. 98 4 and SOP No. 98 9 the arrangement fee was fixed or determinable, collectibility of the fee was probable and persuasive evidence of an arrangement existed. Beginning in December 2000, the Companys software license arrangements have included contractual provisions that, among other things, allow the customer to receive unspecified future software products within designated product lines. Under these arrangements, the Company begins to recognize revenue ratably over the term of the licens e arrangement after meeting the four revenue recognition criteria as noted above. As was the case prior to December 2000, maintenance is recognized ratably over the contract term and professional service fees are generally recognized as the services are performed. The new Business Model improves the visibility of the Companys revenue streams since license fees are recognized ratably, rather than on an up front one time basis. To enhance comparability, during the transition to the new Business Model, the Company has supplemented the MD&A with pro forma financial information for the current and prior fiscal year. Fiscal Year 2002 Total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002 decreased 29%, or $1.226 billion, over fiscal year 2001. Excluding an approximately $90 million decline attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rate movements with the U.S. dollar, revenue decreased $1.136 billion to $3.054 billion. The decrease was primarily due to the Companys transition to the new Business Model during the third quarter of fiscal year 2001, which resulted in a decrease in up front license fees compared to the prior year period, partially offset by new subscription revenue. In addition, apprehension toward capital spending by the Companys existing and potential customers due to weaker conditions in the overall economy and the technology industry also impacted fiscal year 2002 revenue. The Company does not expect an improvement in capital spending by customers until there is an improvement in economic and industry condit ions. During fiscal year 2001, approximately $1.429 billion was recognized as revenue up front at contract signing under the Companys old Business Model and was included in the "Software fees and other" line item on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations in fiscal year 2001. The total revenue decrease is also attributable to a decline in professional services revenue of $222 million. Although the transition to the new Business Model and weaker economic conditions contributed to the revenue decrease, quantification of the impact these components had on such decrease is not readily determinable. The Companys new Business Model will improve the visibility of the Companys revenue streams since license fees will be recognized ratably, rather than on an up front one time basis. To enhance comparability at the outset of the transition to the new Business Model, the Company has supplemented the MD&A with pro forma financial information for the current and prior fiscal year. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002, subscription revenue totaled $827 million, an increase of $768 million over the prior fiscal year. These fees represent the ratable revenue recognized on contracts executed under the new Business Model. The increase is a result of the execution of these types of contracts for all of fiscal year 2002, whereas these contracts were only executed in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2001. Software fees and other decreased $1.449 billion, or 77%, from the comparable prior year period due to the transition to license arrangements under the new Business Model, in which revenue is recognized ratably and is included as "Subscription revenue" on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations, compared with recognizing revenue up front at contract signing as was the case through the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal year 2001. The remaining items that comprise software fees and other are primarily revenue associated with sales to distributors, resellers and VARs, which are generally recognized when the reseller, distributor or VAR sells the software products to its customers. In fiscal year 2002, maintenance revenue decreased 12%, or $129 million, from the prior year. The decrease is primarily attributable to agreements executed under the new Business Model which include maintenance revenue that is bundled with license revenue and, together, the maintenance and license revenue are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement and included as a component of subscription revenue. Maintenance revenue will continue to decrease as deferred maintenance revenue under the Companys old Business Model is amortized over the contract term, partially offset by new maintenance revenue earned from customers who elect to continue to receive optional maintenance at the expiration of the original contract term of their agreements. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002, financing fees decreased 30%, or $194 million, from the prior year. Financing fees result from the initial discounting to present value of product sales with extended payment terms under the Companys old Business Model and the subsequent increase of receivables to the amount due and payable by customers. The decrease was due to the discontinuance of the offering of contracts which were recorded under the old Business Model. Financing fees will continue to decrease as they are amortized over the contract life. In fiscal year 2002, professional services revenue decreased 42%, or $222 million, from the prior year, primarily as a result of the Companys shift in focus to professional services engagements that are centered around the Companys products. The decrease is also attributable to the Companys divestiture in October 2000 of Sterlings Federal Systems Group ("FSG"), a provider of professional services to governmental agencies, which contributed approximately $94 million to professional services revenue in fiscal year 2001. Revenue in the United States represented 62% of overall revenue for fiscal year 2002, as compared to 65% for fiscal year 2001. Consistent with and for the same reasons as the overall decrease in revenue, international revenue decreased $343 million, or 23%, in fiscal year 2002 as compared with fiscal year 2001. Price changes did not have a material impact in fiscal year 2002 or in fiscal year 2001. Cost of professional services consists primarily of personnel related costs to provide professional services and training to customers. Cost of professional services decreased $180 million, or 39%, due primarily to a reduction in professional services revenue and related personnel from fiscal year 2001 to fiscal year 2002, including the divesture of FSG, which contributed approximately $84 million of such expenses in the prior year. In fiscal year 2002, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses decreased 16%, or $330 million, from the prior year to $1.790 billion. The decrease was largely attributable to the Companys emphasis on overall cost control measures, including personnel related costs such as reduced travel expenses in connection with a reduction in the Companys headcount of approximately 3,000 employees over the prior fiscal year period. Excluding a charge related to an impairment of assets sold in April 2002 of approximately $59 million in fiscal year 2002 and a charge associated with the bankruptcy of Inacom Corporation of approximately $31 million in fiscal year 2001, SG&A decreased 17%, or $358 million. Product development and enhancement expenses consists primarily of personnel costs, which decreased $17 million, or 2%, for fiscal year 2002 compared with the prior fiscal year. The decrease was a result of general cost containment primarily related to personnel costs. The Company continued its focus on product development and enhancements, with an emphasis on adapting and enhancing products within the Companys six focus areas, particularly for the distributed processing and IBMs z/OS environments, as well as a broadening of the Companys enterprise product offerings. Commissions and royalty expense decreased $33 million, or 11%, over the prior fiscal year. Commissions and royalty expense as a percentage of revenue increased due to the lower revenue achievement associated with the Companys transition to the new Business Model without an associated change in the overall sales compensation. The decrease in commissions and royalty expense was principally the result of a decline in contract bookings associated with the weaker economic environment for information technology spending. Depreciation and amortization of goodwill and other intangibles expense in fiscal year 2002 decreased $9 million over the prior year. Amortization of capitalized software costs in fiscal year 2002 decreased $5 million over the prior year. The decrease of depreciation and amortization of goodwill and capitalized software costs was a result of scheduled reductions in the amortization of intangible assets associated with past acquisitions. SFAS 142 will have the effect of substantially reducing the Companys amortization of goodwill and intangibles commencing April 1, 2002. Net interest expense decreased $117 million compared with the prior year, consisting of a $58 million reduction due to a decrease in the average variable interest rate and a $59 million reduction due to a decrease in average debt outstanding. The pre tax loss of $1.385 billion for fiscal year 2002 exceeds the fiscal year 2001 loss by $719 million. Excluding the $59 million asset impairment charge, the pre tax loss would have been $1.326 billion, compared with pre tax loss of $819 million in fiscal year 2001, excluding a special gain of $184 million related to the settlement of the 1995 Stock Plan litigation and a special charge of $31 million related to the bankruptcy filing of Inacom Corporation. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2002 was $1.102 billion, compared to a net loss of $591 million for fiscal year 2001. Fiscal 2002 net loss, excluding the after tax aforementioned impairment charge, was $1.053 billion, an increased loss of $366 million over the prior years net loss, exclusive of the 2001 aforementioned special items. The Companys consolidated effective tax rate, excluding acquisition amortization, was 28.4% and 37.5% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Fiscal Year 2001 Total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001 decreased 31%, or $1.904 billion, over fiscal year 2000. Excluding an approximately $140 million decline attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rate movements with the U.S. dollar, revenue decreased $1.764 billion to $4.330 billion. Total revenue was unfavorably impacted in the second half of the fiscal year due to the introduction of the new Business Model whereby license fee revenue for such arrangements is now recognized ratably over the contract term. Additionally, the Company experienced weakness in the first half of the fiscal year as a result of customers deferring purchases ahead of an IBM hardware cycle. Although weaker economic conditions and the transition to the new Business Model contributed to the revenue decrease, quantification of the impact these components had on such decrease is not readily determinable. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, subscription revenue totaled $59 million. These fees represent the ratable revenue recognized on contracts executed under the new Business Model. The remainder of the license and maintenance fees payable on such license arrangements will amortize into revenue over the respective license arrangements term. Software fees and other decreased $2.298 billion, or 55%, from the comparable prior year period due to the transition to license arrangements under the new Business Model. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, the Company recorded $1.429 billion under the old Business Model. The remaining items that comprise software fees and other is primarily revenue associated with sales to distributors, resellers and VARs in which revenue is generally recognized when the reseller, distributor or VAR sells the software products to its customers. In fiscal year 2001, maintenance revenue increased 24%, or $210 million, to $1.087 billion from the prior year primarily as a result of acquired companies products, partially offset by a decrease associated with revenue recorded since the introduction of the new Business Model. Maintenance will continue to decrease as deferred maintenance under the old Business Model is amortized over the contract term. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001, financing fees increased 21%, or $109 million, to $638 million from the prior year, as a result of an increase in installment based licenses and the associated non current receivables prior to the introduction of the new Business Model. Under the old Business Model, financing fees result from the initial discounting to present value of product sales with extended payment terms and the subsequent increase to receivables to the amount due and payable by customers. This accretion of financing fees on the unpaid receivables due in future years represent financing fees. In fiscal year 2001, professional services increased 3%, or $16 million, to $525 million from the prior year, as a result of the acquisition of Sterling in March 2000, partially offset by the Companys refocusing of its service operations on engagements involving the Companys products. Such refocusing has unfavorably impacted professional services revenue. Reflecting the strategy to focus the professional services organization on the deployment of CA solutions, the Company divested FSG in the third quarter of fiscal year 2001. Revenue in the United States represented 65% of overall revenue for fiscal year 2001, as compared to 66% for fiscal year 2000. Consistent with the overall decrease in revenue, international revenue decreased $594 million, or 29%, in fiscal year 2001 as compared with fiscal year 2000. Price changes did not have a material impact in fiscal year 2001 or in fiscal year 2000. Cost of professional services, which consists primarily of personnel related costs to provide professional services and training to customers, increased $17 million, or 4%, which is similar to the increase in professional services revenue from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2001. In fiscal year 2001, SG&A, excluding the charge associated with the bankruptcy of Inacom Corporation of approximately $31 million, increased 48% from the prior year to $2.089 billion, exclusive of the charge of approximately $50 million in fiscal year 2000 associated with the write off of the Companys investment in CHS Electronics, Inc. ("CHS"). The increase was largely attributable to the Companys higher fixed expense structure, principally the result of added personnel and related costs from the acquisition of Sterling, as well as increased spending on marketing associated with a new comprehensive advertising campaign and an increase in provision expense for accounts receivable as a result of the difficult economic climate. Product development and enhancement expenses increased $127 million, or 22%, for fiscal year 2001 compared with the prior year. There was continued emphasis on adapting and enhancing products for the distributed processing environment as well as the broadening of the Companys enterprise product offerings, and additional expenses related to development efforts of products obtained through the acquisition of Sterling. Commissions and royalty expense increased $8 million, or 3%, over the prior year. Commissions and royalty expense as a percentage of revenue increased due to the lower revenue achievement associated with the Companys transition to the new Business Model without an associated change in the sales compensation structure which rewards sales personnel on the total arrangement. Depreciation and amortization of goodwill and other intangibles expense in fiscal year 2001 increased $295 million over the prior year. Amortization of capitalized software costs in fiscal year 2001 increased $221 million over the prior year. The increase in depreciation and both amortization of goodwill and capitalized software costs was primarily due to the additional amortization of the cost of purchased intangibles associated with Sterling, marginally offset by the scheduled reductions in the amortization of costs associated with past acquisitions. Net interest expense increased $5 million compared with the prior year. The increase consisted of a $12 million increase due to an increase in the average variable interest rate and a $7 million decrease due to a decrease in average debt outstanding. The pre tax loss of $666 million for fiscal year 2001 represents a decrease of $2.256 billion, over fiscal year 2000. Excluding a special gain of $184 million related to the settlement of the 1995 Stock Plan litigation and a special charge of $31 million related to the bankruptcy filing of Inacom Corporation, the pre tax loss would have been $819 million, compared with pre tax income of $2.437 billion in fiscal year 2000, excluding special charges of $645 million and $150 million for in process research and development ("IPR&D") relating to the acquisitions of PLATINUM and Sterling, respectively, and approximately $50 million related to the CHS write off. Net loss for the year ended March 31, 2001 was $591 million, a decrease of $1.287 billion over fiscal year 2000. Fiscal 2001 net loss, excluding the after tax aforementioned special items, was $687 million, a decrease of $2.210 billion over the prior year s net income, exclusive of the aforementioned special charges. The Companys consolidated effective tax rate, excluding acquisition amortization and IPR&D charges, was 37.5% for both fiscal years 2001 and 2000. Selected Quarterly Information (in millions, except per share amounts) 2002 Quarterly Results June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31(1) Total Revenue(3) Percent of annual revenue Net loss Basic loss per share Diluted loss per share $ $ 712 24 (342 (0.59 (0.59 % ) ) ) $ $ 733 25 (291 (0.50 (0.50 % ) ) ) $ $ 747 25 (231 (0.40 (0.40 % ) ) ) $ $ 772 26 (238 (0.41 (0.41 % ) ) ) $ $ 2,964 100 (1,102 (1.91 (1.91 % ) ) ) 2001 Quarterly Results June 30(2) Sept. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Total Revenue(3) Percent of annual revenue Net income (loss) Basic earnings (loss) per share Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ 1,134 27 23 0.04 0.04 % $ $ 1,544 37 138 0.24 0.23 % $ $ 782 19 (342 (0.59 (0.59 % ) ) ) $ $ 730 17 (410 (0.71 (0.71 % ) ) ) $ $ 4,190 100 (591 (1.02 (1.02 % ) ) ) (1) Includes an after tax charge of $49 million related to an impairment of assets sold in April 2002. (2) Includes an after tax charge of $19 million related to the bankruptcy of Inacom Corp. and an after tax gain of $115 million related to the 1995 Stock Plan. (3) Adjusted to reflect prior period reclassifications. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Pro Forma Results of Operations To provide comparable financial results, managements discussion and analysis is supplemented with separate pro forma financial information. This pro forma information is presented in order to give effect to the purchase of PLATINUM and Sterling under the assumption that the Company, PLATINUM and Sterling operated under the new Business Model since their inception. Pro forma operating results are calculated by adjusting prior period revenue recorded under the old Business Model to revenue recognized on a ratable basis under the new Business Model, exclusive of acquisition amortization and special items. Reconciliations of GAAP results to pro forma operating results are provided below. While these results may not be indicative of operations had these acquisitions actually occurred on that date and had the Company historically been operating under the new Business Model, the Company believes they provide a basis for comparison at the outset of the transition to the new Business Model. Professional services revenue and total expenses are identical under both the new and old Business Models; therefore, managements discussion and analysis of these captions has not been repeated under the pro forma results of operations. The following pro forma measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2002 2001 (in millions, except per share amounts) Pro Forma Pro Forma GAAP Operating GAAP Operating Results Adjustments Results Results Adjustments Results Revenue(8) $ 2,964 $2,837(1) $5,801 $4,190 $1,368(2) $5,558 Total expenses(8) 4,349 (1,015)(3) 3,334 4,856 (820)(4) 4,036 Pretax (loss) income (1,385) 3,852(5) 2,467 (666) 2,188(5) 1,522 Income tax (benefit) provision (283) 1,208(6) 925 (75) 646(6) 571 Net loss $(1,102) N/A $ (591) N/A Net operating income N/A $1,542 N/A $ 951 Diluted LPS $ (1.91) N/A $(1.02) N/A Shares used 577 N/A 582 N/A Diluted operating EPS N/A $ 2.61 N/A $ 1.61 Shares used 577 14(7) 591 582 10(7) 592 (1) Represents amortization of revenue recognized at contract signing from direct product sales in prior fiscal years for CA ($2,513), Sterling ($161) and PLATINUM ($163) as if revenue had been ratably recognized since their inception. (2) Represents amortization of revenue recognized at contract signing from direct product sales in prior fiscal years for CA ($2,317), Sterling ($228) and PLATINUM ($252) as if revenue had been ratably recognized since their inception, offset by revenue recognized up front ($1,429) under the old Business Model. (3) Represents the elimination of acquisition amortization ($956) and a charge associated with the impairment of assets for sale ($59). (4) Represents the elimination of acquisition amortization ($973), a gain associated with the 1995 Stock Plan ($184) and a charge related to the Inacom bankruptcy ($31). (5) Represents the effect on pre tax loss resulting from the adjustments to revenue and expenses reflected in footnotes (1), (2), (3) and (4). (6) Represents the tax effect of adjustments. The assumed effective tax rate approximated 37.5%. (7) Represents the inclusion of common stock equivalents since they are no longer antidilutive. (8) Prior period adjusted to conform with current period presentation. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Total pro forma revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002 was $5.801 billion, an increase of 4%, or $243 million, over the prior year pro forma revenue of $5.558 billion. The increase was attributable to the ratable recognition of revenue on contracts transacted during the prior fiscal year, partially offset by a reduction in professional services revenue ($222 million), which was primarily the result of the divestiture of FSG in the third quarter of fiscal year 2001, which generated $94 million of revenue in that fiscal year and the Companys decision to reduce professional services associated with non CA products. North America and international pro forma revenue represented 64% and 36%, respectively, of overall pro forma revenue in both fiscal years 2002 and 2001. The international pro forma revenue was unfavorably impacted by the effect of exchange rates on the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. On a pro forma basis, pre tax income excluding acquisition amortization and special charges was $2.467 billion for fiscal year 2002, an increase of 62%, or $945 million, over prior years pre tax income of $1.522 billion, exclusive of acquisition amortization and special items. Pro forma net income, excluding acquisition amortization and special items, was $1.542 billion for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002, an increase of $591 million, or 62%, over fiscal year 2001. The increase was largely attributable to the Companys emphasis on overall cost control measures related to a reduction in the Companys headcount of approximately 3,000 over the prior fiscal year. The Companys consolidated annual effective tax rate, excluding acquisition amortization and special items, was assumed to be 37.5% for both fiscal years 2002 and 2001. In Process Research and Development In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000, the Company acquired Sterling in a stock for stock exchange valued at approximately $4.1 billion. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2000, the Company acquired PLATINUM for approximately $4.3 billion in cash and assumed liabilities. Acquired in process research and development ("IPR&D") charges relate to acquisitions of software companies accounted for under the purchase method, in which a portion of the purchase price is allocated to acquired in process technology and is expensed immediately since the technological feasibility of the research and development projects has not yet been achieved and is believed to have no alternative future use. Independent valuations of Sterling and PLATINUM, using the "Income Approach," were performed and used as an aid in determining the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and in allocating the purchase price among the acquired assets, including the portion of the purchase price attributed to IPR&D, which was $150 million and $645 million for Sterling and PLATINUM, respectively. This approach focuses on the income producing capability of the asset, which was determined through review of data provided by both the acquired companies and independent sources and through analysis of relevant market sizes, growth factors and expected trends in technology. The steps followed in applying this approach included estimating the costs to develop the purchased in process technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from such projects and discounting the net cash flows back to their present value using a rate of return commensurate with the relative risk levels. The ongoing development projects at Sterling at the time of the purchase were composed primarily of application development and information management, business intelligence, network management and storage management tools and solutions. The acquired projects included add on features, tools and next generation versions of COOL, VISION&trade;, EUREKA&trade;, SAMS&trade; and SOLVE&reg; product families. At the time of acquisition, it was estimated that, on average, 68% of the development effort had been completed and the remaining development effort would take approximately 14 months to complete, with a cost of approximately $9 million. Approximately $2 million and $7 million were incurred during the years ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, on the Sterling related projects and no additional amounts are expected to be incurred relative to these projects. Products from each of the aforemention ed projects are currently commercially available under the Sterling product family or the Companys rebranded product names. The ongoing development projects at PLATINUM at the time of the purchase were composed primarily of application development, database and enterprise management tools and data warehousing solutions. The acquired projects included add on features, tools and next generation versions of DB2 Solutions, ProVision&trade;, Security, Advantage application development, end to end data warehousing, and Internet infrastructure product families. At the time of acquisition, it was estimated that, on average, 68% of the development effort had been completed and the remaining development effort would take approximately 12 months to complete, with a cost of approximately $41 million. Approximately $2 million, $19 million and $16 million were incurred during the years ended March 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, on the PLATINUM related projects and no additional amounts are expected to be incurred relative to these projec ts. Products from each of the aforementioned projects are currently commercially available under the PLATINUM product family or the Companys rebranded product names. In order for the Company to succeed in the highly competitive and rapidly changing marketplace in which it operates, it has been the Companys philosophy to continue to develop, as well as integrate, acquired projects into its solutions. The Company is committed to both the Sterling and PLATINUM product lines and continues to invest in the development, enhancement and integration of the acquired projects. In addition, the Company does not specifically track revenue generated from completed IPR&D projects subsequent to the closing and integration of acquisitions. If these projects do not continue to be successfully developed, supported and marketed, the revenue and profitability of the Company may be adversely affected in future periods. Additionally, the value of other intangible assets acquired may become impaired. Results will also be subject to uncertain market events and risks that are beyond the Companys control, such as trends in technology, government regulations, market size and growth and product introduction by competitors. Management believes that the assumptions used in the purchased IPR&D valuation reasonably estimate the future benefits. There can be no assurances that in future periods actual results will not deviate from current estimates. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.180 billion at March 31, 2002, an increase of $330 million from the March 31, 2001 balance of $850 million. The Company made net debt repayments of over $580 million during fiscal year 2002, using cash on hand and cash from operations to repay over $1.240 billion in debt, offset by $660 million Convertible Senior Notes issued in March 2002. The Company intends to use the proceeds from the Convertible Senior Notes issuance to further repay debt in fiscal year 2003. Additionally, the Company repurchased approximately $95 million in treasury stock in fiscal year 2002. Cash generated from operations for fiscal year 2002 was $1.251 billion, a decrease of $132 million from the prior years cash from operations of $1.383 billion. Cash from operations was unfavorably impacted this fiscal year compared with the prior fiscal year by a reduction in customer paym ents at contract signing of the entire multi year arrangement. The Companys bank credit facilities consist of a $1 billion four year revolving credit facility and a $2 billion four year term loan. As of March 31, 2002, $600 million remained outstanding under the four year term loan and $600 million was drawn under the $1 billion four year revolver. The drawings under the revolver were used to repay $600 million of the term loan during fiscal year 2002. The interest rates on such debt are determined based on a ratings grid, which applies a margin to the prevailing London InterBank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). In April 2002, the Company repaid $250 million of the four year revolving credit facility that was due in the first quarter of fiscal year of 2004. During the year, the Company repaid a 75 million British Pound Sterling denominated 364 day facility. In addition, the Company has a $1 billion Commercial Paper ("CP") program. The four year revolver supports the CP program as a backstop facility. As of March 31, 2002, $82 million was outstanding under the CP program. The Company also utilizes other financial markets in order to maintain its broad sources of liquidity. In fiscal year 1999, $1.750 billion of unsecured Senior Notes were issued in a transaction pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Amounts borrowed, rates and maturities for each issue are $575 million at 6.25% due April 15, 2003, $825 million at 6.375% due April 15, 2005 and $350 million at 6.5% due April 15, 2008. As of March 31, 2002, $128 million was outstanding under the Companys 6.77% Senior Notes. These notes call for annual repayment of $64 million each April until final maturity in April 2003. In fiscal year 2002, $660 million of unsecured 5% Convertible Senior Notes, due March 15, 2007, were issued in a transaction pursuant to Rule 144A. The Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness and rank equally with all existing senior unsecured indebtedness. The holders of the Notes may convert all or some of their Notes at any time prior to or on March 14, 2007, unless previously redeemed or repurchased, at a conversion price of $24.34 per share. The initial conversion rate is 41.0846 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes and is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The Notes may not be redeemed by the Company during the first three years that they are outstanding and may be called thereafter until maturity at the Companys option at declining premiums to par. The Company intends to file a registration statement with respect to the Notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of t he Notes. Concurrently with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into a call spread repurchase option transaction ("Call Spread"). The option purchase price of the Call Spread was $95 million. The entire purchase price of $95 million has been charged to Stockholders Equity. Under the terms of the Call Spread, the Company has the option to purchase outstanding shares equivalent to the number of shares that may be issued if all Notes are converted into shares (27.1159 million shares), thereby mitigating dilution to shareholders. The Call Spread can be exercised at the three year anniversary of the issuance of the Notes, at an exercise price of $24.83 per share. To limit the cost of the Call Spread, an upper limit of $36.60 per share has been set such that if the price of the common stock is above that limit at the time of exercise, the number of shares eligible to be purchased will be proportionately reduced based on the amount the common share price exceeds $36.60 at time of exercise. The Call Spre ad is intended to give the Company the option at the three year anniversary to eliminate dilution as a result of the Notes being converted to common shares up to the $36.60 price per common share and significantly mitigate dilution if the share price exceeds $36.60 at that time. The Call Spread was provided by two leading banking institutions. Unsecured and uncommitted multi currency lines of credit are available to meet any short term working capital needs for subsidiaries operating outside the United States. These lines total $51 million, of which $15 million was drawn as of March 31, 2002. Debt ratings for the Companys senior unsecured notes and its bank credit facilities are BBB+ and Baa2 from Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service, respectively. The Companys CP program is rated A 2 from Standard & Poors and P 2 from Moodys. Peak borrowings under all debt facilities during fiscal year 2002 totaled approximately $4.445 billion. The weighted average interest rate for all debt facilities during fiscal year 2002 was 5.95%. As of March 31, 2002, the cumulative number of shares purchased under the Companys various open market Common Stock repurchase programs was 170 million, including approximately 3 million shares purchased in fiscal year 2002. The remaining number of shares authorized for repurchase is approximately 30 million. Capital resource requirements as of March 31, 2002 consisted of lease obligations for office space, computer equipment, mortgage or loan obligations and amounts due as a result of product and company acquisitions. The Company has commitments to invest $17 million in connection with joint venture agreements. It is expected that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, the availability of borrowings under credit lines and expected cash provided from operations will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. The Company expects to renew its bank credit lines prior to their expiration, during the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The Company expects its long standing history of providing extended payment terms to customers to continue under the new Business Model. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2002, the Companys contractual obligations and commitments were as follows: Outstanding debt, inclusive of interest to be paid on such debt, grouped by year of maturity, is as follows: 2003 $696 million; 2004 $1,612 million; 2005 $108 million; 2006 $882 million; 2007 $716 million and thereafter $351 million. In addition, future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 2003 $140 million; 2004 $101 million; 2005 $85 million; 2006 $64 million; 2007 $56 million; and thereafter $198 million. The Company also has commitments to invest $17 million in connection with joint venture agreements. New Accounting Pronouncements In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." SFAS 141 addresses the accounting for acquisitions of businesses and is effective for acquisitions occurring on or after July 1, 2001. This statement is not expected to have an impact on the Company. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires the use of a non amortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain intangibles. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the non amortization approach, goodwill and certain intangibles will not be amortized into results of operations, but instead will be reviewed for impairment, written down and charged to results of operations only in periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its fair value. The Company is having an independent valuation analysis completed and does not anticipate any material transitional impairment; however, future impairment reviews may result in periodic write downs. SFAS 142 will have the effect of substantially reducing the Companys amortization of goodwill and intangibles commencing A pril 1, 2002. The Company amortized $429 million, $470 million and $221 million of goodwill for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS 143 requires, among other things, that entities record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. This statement is not expected to have an impact on the Company. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" ("SFAS 144") which supersedes SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." SFAS 144 requires, among other things, that long lived assets be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value, less cost to sell, whether reported in continuing operations or in discontinued operations. SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption of SFAS 144. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." SFAS 145, among other things, rescinds SFAS 4, which required all gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt to be classified as an extraordinary item and amends SFAS 13 to require that certain lease modifications that have economic effects similar to sale leaseback transactions be accounted for in the same manner as sale leaseback transactions. This statement is not expected to have an impact on the Company. The Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") of the FASB issued EITF 00 25, "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration Paid to a Reseller of the Vendors Products." This EITF is effective for annual and interim financial statements beginning after December 15, 2001. EITF 00 25, as further defined by EITF 01 9, "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products)," requires, among other things, that payments made to resellers by the Company for cooperative advertising, buydowns and similar arrangements should be classified as reductions to net sales. Such payments, primarily consisting of rebates, incentives and other cooperative advertising type costs, totaled $13 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002. The Company has historically reported such payments as a component of SG&A. To enable comparisons between fiscal 2002 results an d the results of prior years, the Company has reclassified these payments in the prior years from SG&A to software fees and other. The impact of the reclassification reduces both software fees and other and SG&A by $16 million and $18 million in fiscal years 2001 and 2000, respectively. The reclassifications do not affect the Companys (loss) profit from operations, net (loss) income or basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share. The Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF D 103, "Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred." This EITF is effective for financial reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2001. EITF D 103 requires that reimbursements received for out of pocket expenses incurred should be characterized as revenue in the statement of operations. Such reimbursements totaled $8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002. The Company has historically reported such reimbursements as a component of SG&A. To enable comparisons between fiscal 2002 results and the results of prior years, the Company has reclassified these reimbursements in the prior years from SG&A to professional services revenue. The impact of the reclassification increases both professional services revenue and SG&A by $8 million and $9 million in fiscal years 2001 and 2000, respective ly. The reclassifications do not affect the Companys (loss) profit from operations, net (loss) income or basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share. Risk Factors Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond the Companys control, could negatively affect the Companys revenue, profitability or cash flow in the future. Operating results and revenue are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors. Quarterly and annual results of operations are affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, which in turn could adversely affect the Companys revenue, profitability or cash flow in the future. These factors include: Demand for products and services; Length of sales cycle; Customer implementation of the Companys products; Magnitude of price and product competition; Introduction of new hardware; General economic conditions in countries in which customers do a substantial amount of business; Customer budgets for hardware and software; Ability to develop and introduce new or enhanced versions of the Companys products; Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; Ability to control costs; The size of licensing transactions; Ability to retain qualified personnel; and Reaction of customers to the new Business Model. Any of the foregoing factors may cause the Companys operating expenses to be disproportionately high or cause its revenue and operating results to fluctuate. As a consequence, the Companys business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The computer software business is highly competitive. The market in which the Company competes is marked by rapid and substantial technological change, the steady emergence of new companies and products, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. To remain competitive, the Company must develop new products and continue to enhance existing products. The Company may be unsuccessful in its ability to develop new releases or new products that meet the needs of its customers in light of competitive alternatives available in the market. In addition, the introduction of new products or versions of existing products may not meet with customer acceptance or may be delayed. The Companys inability to bring new products and enhancements to existing products to the market in a timely manner or the failure for these products to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. The software business is marked by easy entry and large, entrenched businesses. Many companies with whom the Company competes, including IBM, Sun, HP and other large computer manufacturers, have substantial resources, a larger installed base of customers in any particular market niche, as well as the ability to develop and market software programs similar to and competitive with the products offered by the Company. Competitive products are also offered by numerous independent software companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry. Some, like Microsoft, Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, are the leading developers and vendors in their specialized markets. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with those offered by the Company. Increased competition also results from consolidation of existing companies within the industry. Additionally, many customers historically have developed thei r own solutions that compete with those offered by the Company. Competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions, or displacement of the Companys products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. The Companys products must remain compatible with ever changing operating environments. IBM, HP, Sun and Microsoft are by far the largest suppliers of systems software and, in most cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of the Companys customers. Historically, these operating system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could in the future incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by the Companys products or could require substantial modification of the Companys products to maintain compatibility with these companies hardware or software. Although the Company has to date been able to adapt its products and its business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software developers, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt the Companys products in a timely manner to such changes or customer d ecisions to forego the use of the Companys products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or operating system could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon access to third party operating systems. In the past, licensees using proprietary operating systems were furnished with "source code," which makes the operating system generally understandable to programmers, and "object code," which directly controls the hardware and other technical documentation. Since the availability of source code facilitated the development of systems and applications software, which must interface with the operating systems, independent software vendors such as the Company were able to develop and market compatible software. IBM and other hardware vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of the source code for some of their operating systems. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on the Company. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research an d development costs for the Company in connection with the enhancement and modification of the Companys existing products and the development of new products. Although the Company does not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Third party microcode could impact product development. The Company anticipates ongoing use of microcode or firmware provided by hardware manufacturers. Microcode and firmware are essentially software programs in hardware form and are therefore less flexible than other types of software. The Company believes that such continued use will not have a significant impact on the Companys operations and that its products will remain compatible with any changes to such code. However, there can be no assurance that future technological developments involving such microcode will not have an adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Customer decisions are influenced by general economic conditions. The Companys products are designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of its customers information processing resources. In a recessionary environment, the Companys products are often a reasonable economic alternative for customers faced with the prospect of incurring expenditures to increase their existing information processing resources. However, a general slowdown in the world economy or a particular region could cause customers to delay or forego decisions to license new products or upgrades to their existing environments and this could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to protect the Companys intellectual property rights would weaken its competitive position. Future success of the Company is dependent upon its proprietary technology. The Company protects its proprietary information through the use of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding the Companys efforts to protect its proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use or copying of its proprietary information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and diversion of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not afford the same degree of protection to the Companys proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, "shrink wrap" or "click on" licenses may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In addition, patents the Company has obt ained may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. The Companys inability to adequately protect its intellectual property for these or other reasons could adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results. The markets for some or all the Companys key product areas may not continue to grow. The Company has identified six product focus areas: Enterprise Management, Security, Storage, Portal and Business Intelligence, Application Life Cycle Management and Data Management and Application Development. Some or all of these areas may not continue to grow, may not grow at their current rates, may decline in growth or customers may decline or forego use of products in some or all of these focal areas. This is particularly true in newly emerging areas, such as Portal and Business Intelligence. A decline in these focus areas could result in decreased demand for the Companys products, which would adversely impact its business, financial condition and operating results. Certain software is licensed from third parties. Some of the Companys products contain software licensed from third parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to the Company in the future on terms that are acceptable or allow its products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or the ability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or enhancement of existing products. This could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Customers are still adapting to the Companys new Business Model. The Companys new Business Model affords customers greater flexibility in licensing transactions. For example, under the new Business Model, the Company licenses software on a month to month or other short term basis in order to allow customers the opportunity to try the Companys software solutions without committing to a multi year license obligation. Transactions such as these increase the risk that customers will not fully implement the Companys software and will not enter into a long term relationship with the Company. This could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. This effect could be diminished if customers elect cost certainty by committing to longer contract periods. Third parties could claim that the Companys products infringe their intellectual property rights. From time to time the Company receives notices from third parties claiming infringement of various forms of their intellectual property. Investigation of these claims, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or shipment of the Companys products. As the number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims, with or without merit, will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time consuming and could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms that could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Changes to compensation of the Companys sales organization. The Company revised its compensation plan for the sales organization effective April 1, 2001. The new compensation plan is in alignment with the new Business Model objectives of providing customer flexibility and satisfaction. The compensation plan may encourage behavior not anticipated or intended as it is implemented, which could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. The success of the Companys international operations is subject to many factors. International revenue has historically represented approximately one third of the Companys total worldwide revenue. Continued success in selling the Companys products outside of the United States depends on a variety of factors, including the following: Reorganizations of the sales force; Fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates; Staffing key managerial positions; General economic conditions in foreign countries; Political instability; and Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties or other controls affecting foreign operations. Increase in tariffs, the imposition of trade restrictions or other factors may adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in transaction losses. Most of the revenue and expenses of the Companys foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Due to the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, it is not possible to predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the Companys future operating results. Given the relatively long sales cycle that is typical for many of the Companys products, foreign currency fluctuations could result in substantial changes in the foreign currency impact on these transactions. Additionally, deterioration of the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar can affect the Companys ability to increase its revenue within those markets, all of which may adversely impact the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. The Company could be subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions as a result of a joint inquiry by the SEC and U.S. Attorneys Office. Since February 2002, the Company has been cooperating with a joint inquiry by the staff of the Northeast Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York concerning certain of the Companys accounting practices. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Although the Company is unable at this point to predict the scope or outcome of this inquiry, it is possible that it could result in the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, and/ or other remedies and sanctions. The conduct of these proceedings could negatively impact the Companys stock price. In addition, the Company expects to continue to incur expenses associated with responding to these agencies, regardless of the outcome and this may divert the efforts and attention of the Companys management team from no rmal business operations. The Company may become dependent upon large transactions. The Company has historically been dependent upon large dollar enterprise transactions with individual customers. As a result of the flexibility afforded by the new Business Model, the Company anticipates that there will be fewer of these transactions in the future. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will not be reliant on large dollar enterprise transactions in the future and the failure to close such transactions could adversely affect the Companys business, financial conditions and operating results. A large portion of business is consummated at the end of each quarter. Historically, a significant percentage of the Companys quarterly transactions are finalized in the last few days of the quarter, which may impact financial performance. One of the intended benefits the Company anticipates from the new Business Model will be a more predictable revenue stream throughout the quarter. Even as customers continue to transition to the new Business Model, it is still likely that a large number of transactions will be consummated in the last few days of the quarter, with the risk that some of these may not become final. Failure to finalize transactions in the last few days of the quarter could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Growth depends upon successful integration of acquisitions. The Companys growth strategy is based upon internal development of technology, selective acquisitions and integration of such acquisitions into ongoing operations. Implementation of this growth strategy may result in strains on the Companys management team, internal systems and financial resources. Difficulties encountered in successfully integrating acquired companies and products may adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. The Company has a significant amount of debt. As of March 31, 2002, the Company had approximately $3.8 billion of debt outstanding consisting of bank credit lines, unsecured fixed rate senior note obligations, convertible senior notes, commercial paper and unsecured multi currency credit facilities. The Company expects that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, expected cash provided from operations and the anticipated renewal of bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. Failure to generate sufficient cash as the debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. The Companys credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further. In March 2002, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the Companys senior unsecured long term debt rating and shifted its rating outlook on the Company from stable to negative. In addition, in February 2002 Standard & Poors revised its rating outlook on the Company from stable to negative. The Company cannot assure investors that Moodys, Standard & Poors or any other rating agency will not further downgrade the Companys credit ratings in the future. If the Companys credit ratings are downgraded, it could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest under its credit agreements or other debt. Any such downgrades could also affect the ability of the Company to obtain additional financing in the future and will affect the terms of any such financing. The Companys stock price may continue to be volatile. The Companys stock price is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, the gain or loss of significant contracts, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or the Companys competitors, changes in domestic and international economic and business conditions, general conditions in the software and computer industries and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to the Companys and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have in the past adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of the Companys common stock. Acts of terrorism or war may adversely affect the Companys business. Acts of terrorism, acts of war and other unforeseen events, may cause damage or disruption to the Companys properties, business, employees, suppliers, distributors, resellers and customers, which could have an adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Such events may also result in an economic slowdown in the United States or elsewhere, which could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and operating results. Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk The Companys exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Companys investment portfolio, debt payable and installment accounts receivable. The Company has a prescribed methodology whereby it invests its excess cash in debt instruments of government agencies and high quality corporate issuers (Standard & Poors single "A" rating and higher). To mitigate risk, many of the securities have a maturity date within one year, and holdings of any one issuer excluding the U.S. Government do not exceed 10% of the portfolio. Periodically, the portfolio is reviewed and adjusted if the credit rating of a security held has deteriorated. The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments. The Company maintains a blend of both fixed and floating rate debt instruments. As of March 31, 2002, the Companys outstanding debt approximated $3.8 billion, with approximately $2.5 billion in fixed rate obligations. If market rates were to decline, the Company could be required to make payments on the fixed rate debt that would exceed those based on current market rates. Each 25 basis point decrease in interest rates would have an associated annual opportunity cost of approximately $6 million. Each 25 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have an approximately $3 million annual effect on variable rate debt interest based on the balances of such debt as of March 31, 2002. The Company offers financing arrangements with installment payment terms in connection with its software solution sales. The aggregate contract value under the old Business Model includes an imputed interest element, which can vary with the interest rate environment. Each 25 basis point increase in interest rates would have an associated annual opportunity cost of approximately $9 million. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Company conducts business on a worldwide basis through branches and subsidiaries in 45 countries. The Company is therefore exposed to movement in currency exchange rates. As part of its risk management strategy and consistent with prior years, the Company did not enter into any foreign exchange derivative transactions. In addition, the Company manages its level of exposure by denominating international sales and payments of related expense in the local currency of its subsidiaries. A 1% decline in all foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would have an insignificant effect on the Companys net (loss) income. Equity Price Risk The Company has minimal investments in marketable equity securities of publicly traded companies. As of March 31, 2002, these investments were considered available for sale with any unrealized gains or losses deferred as a component of stockholders equity. It is not customary for the Company to make investments in equity securities as part of its investment strategy. 
 
