Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For a discussion of risks related to the Companys non US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Major Customers The Company has no customers that accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2005, 2004 or 2003. Other Matters The Companys businesses maintain sufficient levels of working capital to support customer requirements. The Companys sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of its competitors. Available Information The Company maintains an internet website at www.danaher.com. The Company makes available free of charge on the website its annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. The Companys Internet site and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K. 11 Table of Contents Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters Danaher has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available in the Investors section of Danahers website at www.danaher.com. The charters of each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are also available in the Investors section of the Companys website at www.danaher.com. Stockholders may request a free copy of these committee charters and the Corporate Governance Guidelines from: Danaher Corporation Attention: Investor Relations 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W, 12th Floor Washington, DC 20006 Certifications The Company has filed certifications under Rule 13a 14(a) under the Exchange Act as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, an annual CEO Certification was submitted by the Companys CEO to each of the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange on May 18, 2005 in accordance with the respective listing standards of those exchanges. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non U.S. economic and industry conditions, including a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic/business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and liquidity. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may face decreased demand or price reductions for our products. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive. Because of the diversity of products sold and the variety of markets served, we encounter a wide variety of competitors. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers, establish relationships with new customers, continually develop new products and services designed to maintain our leadership position in various product categories and penetrate new markets. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures may adversely impact our profitability. Technologies, product offerings and customer requirements in many of our markets change rapidly. If we fail to keep up with these changes, we may not be able to meet our customers needs and demand for our products may decline. Rapid technological change and frequent introductions of new products and services characterize many of the markets we serve. Changes in regulations can also impact demand for new products in our markets. Our failure to successfully embrace and respond to these changes and developments may reduce our revenues and cash flow and adversely affect our profitability. Even if we successfully embrace and respond to these changes and developments, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital. Conversely, any inability to consummate acquisitions at our prior rate could negatively impact our growth rate. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we acquired 13, 13 and 12 businesses, respectively. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability: Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it. Acquisition related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results. Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to achieve cost savings anticipated in connection with the integration of an acquired business. We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or internal control deficiencies. The realization of any of these liabilities may increase our expenses and reduce our cash reserves. Conversely, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions at similar rates to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to achieve our growth goals depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of their company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. The resolution of contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have retained responsibility for some of the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, product liability claims and environmental matters, and agreed to indemnify the purchasers of these businesses for certain known and unknown contingent liabilities. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition but we can not be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property and avoid claims of infringement or misuse of third party intellectual property. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The steps we have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, from time to time in the usual course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even where we are successful in defending claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. There can be no assurance that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. In addition, we may incur costs related to alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or 13 Table of Contents other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. There can be no assurance that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. In addition to the environmental regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non U.S. governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: We are required to comply with various export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect Company transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between Company employees and Company subsidiaries. In certain circumstances these regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances the Company may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by counterpart agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products could lead to declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, premarket notification rescissions, and warning letters. We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and or non U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial monetary and non monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. Cyclical economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have adversely impacted demand for the equipment and services that we manufacture and market. Any downturn or competitive pricing pressures in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. Foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our business and financial results will suffer. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient 14 Table of Contents quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. We have a number of domestic collective bargaining units and various foreign collective labor arrangements. While we generally have experienced satisfactory relations at our various locations, we are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. International economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 2005, approximately 47% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. and we continue to increase our sales outside the U.S. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in foreign operations and could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including: interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; trade protection measures; import or export licensing requirements; unexpected changes in laws or licensing and regulatory requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; and terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto. Audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our operating results. Our defined benefit pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates and the majority of plan assets are invested in publicly traded debt and equity securities, which are affected by market risks. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may adversely impact our future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Companys corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. At December 31, 2005, the Company had 204 significant manufacturing and distribution locations worldwide, comprising approximately 18 million square feet, of which approximately 12 million square feet are owned and approximately 6 million square feet are leased. Of these manufacturing and distribution locations, 111 facilities are located in the United States and 93 are located outside the United States, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, Canada, and Latin America. The number of manufacturing and distribution locations by business segment are: Professional Instrumentation, 83; Industrial Technologies, 84; and Tools and Components, 37. 15 Table of Contents The Company considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and does not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Please refer to Note 10 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to the Companys lease commitments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In addition to the litigation noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety and described in Notes 11 and 18 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, auto, product, general liability, and directors and officers liability insurance (and have acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes covers a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to protect it against potential loss exposures. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. The Company believes that the results of these litigation matters and other pending legal proceedings will not have a materially adverse effect on the Companys cash flows or financial condition, even before taking into account any related insurance or indemnification recoveries. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions for workers compensation, property, automobile, product and general liability costs, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Companys accrual for self insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005. Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of the Companys executive officers. All executive officers hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Name Age Position OfficerSince Steven M. Rales 54 Chairman of the Board 1984 Mitchell P. Rales 49 Chairman of the Executive Committee 1984 H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. 42 Chief Executive Officer and President 1995 Patrick W. Allender 59 Executive Vice President 1987 Daniel L. Comas 42 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 1996 Philip W. Knisely 51 Executive Vice President 2000 Steven E. Simms 50 Executive Vice President 1996 James A. Lico 40 Executive Vice President 2002 James H. Ditkoff 59 Senior Vice President Finance and Tax 1991 Robert S. Lutz 48 Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 2002 Daniel A. Raskas 39 Vice President Corporate Development 2004 16 Table of Contents Steven M. Rales has served as Chairman of the Board since January 1984. In addition, during the past five years, he has been a principal in a number of private business entities with interests in manufacturing companies and publicly traded securities. Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. Mitchell P. Rales has served as Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1990. In addition, during the past five years, he has been a principal in a number of private business entities with interests in manufacturing companies and publicly traded securities. Mr. Rales is a brother of Steven M. Rales. H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in 2001. He has served in general management positions within the Company for more than the past five years, including serving as Chief Operating Officer from July 2000 to May 2001. Patrick W. Allender was appointed Executive Vice President in 1999. He also served as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Company from March 1987 until April 2005. Daniel L. Comas was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2005. He served as Vice President Corporate Development from 1996 to April 2004 and as Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Development from April 2004 to April 2005. Philip W. Knisely has served as Executive Vice President since he joined the Company in June 2000. Steven E. Simms was appointed Executive Vice President in November 2000. He joined the Company in 1996 as Vice President and Group Executive. James A. Lico was appointed Executive Vice President in September 2005. He has served in a variety of general management positions since joining the Company in 1996, including most recently as President of Fluke Corporation from July 2000 until September 2005, as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher Corporation from December 2002 until September 2005, and as Vice President Danaher Business Systems Office from September 2004 until September 2005. James H. Ditkoff served as Vice President Finance and Tax from January 1991 to December 2002 and has served as Senior Vice President Finance and Tax since December 2002. Robert S. Lutz joined the Company as Vice President Audit and Reporting in July 2002 and was appointed Vice President Chief Accounting Officer in March 2003. Prior to joining the Company, he served in various positions at Arthur Andersen LLP, an accounting firm, from 1979 until 2002, most recently as partner from 1991 to July 2002. Daniel A. Raskas was appointed Vice President Corporate Development in November 2004. Prior to joining the Company, he worked for Thayer Capital Partners, a private equity investment firm, from 1998 through October 2004, most recently as Managing Director from 2001 through October 2004. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS On April 22, 2004, the Companys Board of Directors declared a two for one split of its common stock. The split was affected in the form of a stock dividend paid on May 20, 2004 to shareholders of record on May 6, 2004. All share and per share information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been retroactively restated to reflect the effect of this split. The Companys common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange under the symbol DHR. On February 24, 2006, there were approximately 3,400 holders of record of the Companys common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 2005 2004 High Low DividendsPer Share High Low DividendsPer Share First quarter $ 56.23 $ 52.60 $ .0150 $ 48.10 $ 43.83 $ .0125 Second quarter 55.73 48.56 .0150 52.02 44.13 .0150 Third quarter 56.68 51.76 .0200 52.96 47.65 .0150 Fourth quarter 58.07 49.93 .0200 58.90 51.44 .0150 17 Table of Contents On September 13, 2005, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on the Companys common stock from $.015 to $.02 per share. The payment of dividends by the Company in the future will be determined by the Companys Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, the Companys financial earnings and other factors. Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities Repurchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2005 are listed in the following table. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased AveragePrice Paidper Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Sharesthat May Yet Be PurchasedUnder The Plans or Programs 10/1/0510/31/05(1) 1,417,500 $ 50.53 1,417,500 6,719,000 11/1/0511/30/05(1) 1,723,000 $ 51.87 1,723,000 4,996,000 12/1/0512/31/05(2) 11,211 $ 55.84 0 4,996,000 Total 3,151,711 $ 51.28 3,140,500 4,996,000 (1) On April 21, 2005, the Company announced that on April 20, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys 1998 Stock Option Plan and for other corporate purposes. The Company expects to fund the repurchase program using the Companys available cash balances or existing lines of credit. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company accepted an aggregate of 11,211 previously issued shares tendered by three employees as payment of the strike price in connection with the exercise of stock options. The average price paid per share is based on the closing price of the Companys common stock as reported on the NYSE on the date of the transaction. None of these transactions were made in the open market. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share information) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Sales $ 7,984,704 $ 6,889,301 $ 5,293,876 $ 4,577,232 $ 3,782,444 Operating Profit 1,264,668 1,105,133 845,995 (a) 701,122 (b) 502,011 (b) Net earnings before effect of accounting change and reduction of income tax reserves related to previously discontinued operation (c) 897,800 746,000 536,834 (a) 434,141 (b) 297,665 (b) Net earnings 897,800 746,000 536,834 (a) 290,391 (b) 297,665 (b) Earnings per share before accounting change and reduction of income tax reserves related to previously discontinued operation (c) Basic 2.91 2.41 1.75 (a) 1.45 (b) 1.04 (b) Diluted 2.76 2.30 1.69 (a) 1.39 (b) 1.00 (b) Earnings per share Basic 2.91 2.41 1.75 (a) 0.97 (b) 1.04 (b) Diluted 2.76 2.30 1.69 (a) 0.94 (b) 1.00 (b) Dividends per share 0.070 0.058 0.050 0.045 0.040 Total assets 9,163,109 8,493,893 6,890,050 6,029,145 4,820,483 Total debt 1,041,722 1,350,298 1,298,883 1,309,964 1,191,689 (a) Includes a benefit of $22.5 million ($14.6 million after tax or $0.05 per share) from a gain on curtailment of the Companys Cash Balance Pension Plan recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003. (b) Includes $69.7 million ($43.5 million after tax or $0.14 per share) in costs from restructuring charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2001 and a benefit of $6.3 million ($4.1 million after tax or $0.01 per share) from the reversal of unutilized restructuring accruals recorded in the fourth quarter of 2002. (c) In 2002, the Company recorded an after tax charge for $173.8 million ($0.58 per basic share and $0.55 per diluted share) related to impairment of goodwill resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 142. In addition, the Company recorded an after tax benefit of $30 million ($0.10 per basic and diluted share) due to reduction of tax reserves established related to a previously discontinued operation. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with its audited consolidated financial statements. OVERVIEW Danaher Corporation strives to create shareholder value through: delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for its products and services; upper quartile financial performance when compared against peer companies; and upper quartile cash flow generation from operations when compared against peer companies. To accomplish these goals, the Company uses a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (DBS), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. The Company also acquires businesses that it believes can help it achieve the objectives described above. The Company will acquire businesses when they strategically fit with existing operations or when they are of such a nature and size as to establish a new strategic line of business. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and integrated can affect the Companys overall growth and operating results. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. Approximately 47% of Danahers sales were derived outside the United States in 2005. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry economic and political factors. However, Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Companys order rates are highly indicative of the Companys future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. In those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. While differences exist among the Companys businesses, the Company generally continued to see broad based market expansion during 2005, but at lower rates than in 2004. Management believes that this moderation in growth rates reflects more difficult comparisons with the Companys 2004 fiscal periods, which were strong for the Company by historical standards, as well as slower growth in technology end markets and current global economic conditions. Consolidated sales for 2005 increased approximately 16.0% over 2004. Sales from existing businesses for the year (references to sales from existing businesses in this report include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect) contributed approximately 4.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 11.5% growth. The impact of currency translation on sales was negligible for the year as the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the second half of the year offset weakness of the U.S. dollar in the first half of the year. The growth in sales resulting from acquisitions in 2005 primarily relates to acquisitions in the Companys medical technologies business. The Company established its medical technologies business through the acquisitions of Radiometer A/S and substantially all the assets and certain liabilities of the Gendex business of Dentsply International Inc. in January 2004 and Kaltenbach & Voight Gmbh (KaVo) in May 2004. The medical technologies business has provided a foundation for additional sales and earnings growth as the Company has acquired additional companies to complement the initial medical technologies businesses. During 2005, the Company acquired four medical technologies businesses, the largest being the acquisition of Leica Microsystems AG in August 2005. Leica Microsystems is a leading global provider of life sciences instrumentation and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested). The Companys medical technologies business is expected to continue to provide sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company, both through expansion of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in the markets and geographies served. The Companys performance will be impacted by its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and 20 Table of Contents geographies served, including trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of market opportunities in Asia and recent increases in raw material costs. The Company will continue to assess market needs with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner. With the formation of the medical technologies business in 2004 and expansion of this business in 2005, the Company is devoting significant attention to the successful integration and restructuring of these acquired businesses. Although the Company has a U.S. Dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, a substantial portion of its sales are derived from foreign countries. Sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, reported sales are affected by changes in currency rates, which are outside of the control of management. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its investment in foreign operations without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales and profit in the Companys consolidated financial statements. As noted above, the impact of currency trends in the Companys international businesses during 2005 when compared to 2004 was negligible for the full year, despite fluctuations during periods within the year. The following sensitivity analysis demonstrates the recent strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major currencies. Applying the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2005 to the translation of the financial statements for the Companys non U.S. operations for 2005 would result in approximately 1.3% lower overall Company sales than what was actually reported using the rates in effect during this reporting period. Any further strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major currencies would have a further adverse impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated: For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Professional Instrumentation $ 3,782.1 $ 2,963.5 $ 1,939.7 Industrial Technologies 2,908.1 2,619.5 2,157.0 Tools & Components 1,294.5 1,306.3 1,197.2 Total $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION As of December 31, 2005, the Professional Instrumentation segment was Danahers largest segment and encompasses three strategic businesses: environmental, electronic test, and medical technologies. Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 3,782.1 $ 2,963.5 $ 1,939.7 Operating Profit 677.0 554.5 362.6 Operating profit as a % of sales 17.9 % 18.7 % 18.7 % 21 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Existing businesses 4.5 % 8.5 % Acquisitions 23.0 % 40.5 % Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 4.0 % Total 27.5 % 53.0 % 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 As detailed in the table above, segment sales increased 27.5% for 2005 compared to 2004. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses increased in all three of the Companys strategic lines of business with the highest growth resulting from the electronic test and environmental water quality businesses. Sales in the Companys environmental and retail petroleum automation business were up low single digits for the year. The Companys dental equipment businesses were essentially flat compared with the period of ownership in 2004, but showed mid single digit growth for the fourth quarter of 2005 and on a full year pro forma basis when compared with the prior year. Operating profit margins for the segment were 17.9% in 2005 compared to 18.7% for 2004. Operating profit margins in the segment for 2005 compared with 2004 were adversely impacted by the dilutive impact of acquisitions, principally Leica Microsystems and KaVo. These recent acquisitions operate at lower overall operating profit margins than the segments ongoing businesses. In addition, 2005 operating profit margins for the segment reflect additional costs associated with restructuring actions within the dental business, which generally commenced in the third quarter of 2005. Operating profit margins for 2005 were also impacted by higher expense levels to support strategic growth initiatives in certain businesses. On going cost reduction initiatives through the application of the Danaher Business System, low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage created from sales growth compared with the prior year period, partially offset these adverse impacts. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses, the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage from anticipated sales growth are all expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses, including Leica Microsystems and KaVo, in future periods, but are expected to be offset to varying extents by continued investments in growth and restructuring initiatives. In particular, the Company expects that operating margins in its dental businesses will improve in 2006 as the Companys integration activities in those businesses take hold. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 44% of segment sales for 2005, increased approximately 12.5% in 2005 compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses accounted for approximately 5.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 7.5% growth. The impact of currency translation was negligible for 2005 compared to 2004. The Companys Hach/Lange water quality businesses reported high single digit growth in 2005 primarily driven by mid single digit growth in laboratory sales and low double digit growth in process instrumentation sales in both the United States and European markets. New product launches in 2005 positively impacted process instrumentation sales. The business sales in China also grew over 35% in 2005 on a year over year basis. The Companys Hach Ultra Analytics business reported mid single digit growth in 2005, driven primarily by high single digit growth in the U.S. partially offset by slowing sales in electronics end markets and in Europe. Sales growth from acquired businesses primarily reflects the impact of the acquisition of Trojan Technologies in November 2004 and two smaller water quality businesses during 2005. The Gilbarco Veeder Root environmental and retail petroleum automation business reported low single digit sales growth for 2005 compared to 2004. The business experienced growth in sales of environmental equipment in Asia and Latin America. Sales in Europe were down compared to 2004, due in part to the fact that 2004 sales included the impact of a large shipment. Sales in the U.S. were flat compared to 2004. Electronic Test. Sales from the Companys electronic test businesses, representing approximately 25% of segment sales for 2005, grew 16.0% compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 8.5% growth and favorable currency translation accounted for 1.0% growth. 22 Table of Contents Sales growth from existing businesses for 2005 built on strong performance experienced by this business throughout 2004. Key contributors to the 2005 growth included strength in the U.S. and European industrial and electrical channels, in each case driven by strong demand for recently introduced product offerings. Sales in China also showed strong growth during 2005. The Companys network test business reported flat sales growth for 2005 compared to a very strong 2004. The businesss 2004 results benefited from delivery of a large shipment in the fourth quarter of 2004 for test equipment to service a telecommunication customer. Medical Technologies. Sales from the Companys medical technologies business, representing approximately 31% of segment sales for 2005, increased 75.5% compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses contributed approximately 2.5% growth during 2005. Acquisitions accounted for 75.0% growth. Unfavorable currency translation accounted for a 2.0% sales decline. As described above, the Company established the medical technologies business with the acquisitions of Radiometer and Gendex in the first quarter of 2004 and added to this business with the acquisition of KaVo in May 2004, the acquisition of Leica Microsystems AG in August 2005 as well as the acquisition of three smaller dental and medical instrumentation products companies during 2005. Radiometers business experienced mid single digit growth for 2005 over the comparable period of 2004. This performance was primarily the result of growth in North America and Japan, driven by placements of recently introduced products and related accessory sales, offset by weaker performance in Europe. Sales from existing businesses in the Companys dental businesses experienced mid single digit growth in fourth quarter of 2005 compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. For the full year 2005, the dental businesses sales growth was flat for the period of ownership, but would have reported mid single digit growth on a full year pro forma basis had they been included for a full year in both 2005 and 2004. Sales for 2005 were negatively impacted by changes in German reimbursement regulations as well as the reduction in promotional activity in 2005 while the business restructured certain German operations which occurred in the third and fourth quarters of 2005. Sales for 2005 benefited from strong growth experienced with the introduction of a new digital imaging product offering in the second half of 2005. The business also experienced sales growth due to the third quarter launch of a sensor line with US distribution as well as strong sales growth at Pelton & Crane, the Companys newest dental acquisition. The results of Leica Microsystems have been reflected in the Companys results of operations since its acquisition in August 2005. Leica Microsystems had annual revenues from continuing operations of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor equipment business that has been divested). Leica Microsystems current gross margins approximate the Companys overall gross margins and are not expected to dilute gross margins in future periods. However, Leica Microsystems operating profit margins are below the Company and segment average and will be dilutive in the near term. The Company expects to enhance the business operating margins through the application of the Danaher Business System. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales of the Professional Instrumentation segment increased approximately 53.0% in 2004 compared to 2003, largely as a result of sales from acquired businesses, which contributed approximately 40.5% of the overall increase. Sales from existing businesses for this segment contributed approximately 8.5% growth compared to 2003, principally from sales increases in the environmental and electronic test and measurement businesses. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2003. Favorable currency translation impact accounted for approximately 4.0% of the overall sales increase. Operating profit margins for the segment were 18.7% in 2004, flat compared to 2003. Operating profit margin improvements in the Companys existing operations were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses, primarily KaVo, which diluted segment margins compared with 2003. The Company continues to pursue on going cost reductions through application of the Danaher Business System and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives which are expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in future periods. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses increased approximately 16.0% in 2004 compared to 2003. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 3.0% growth, sales from existing businesses provided 9.0% growth and favorable currency translation provided 4.0% growth. Sales were positively impacted by continued strength in the Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum equipment business. Gilbarco Veeder Root delivered low double digit growth rates for the full year 2004, but slowed to a mid single digit growth rate on a comparable basis during the fourth quarter of 2004 compared to the fourth quarter of 2003 as a result of comparisons with the higher sales levels that began in the fourth quarter of 2003. In addition, growth rates for the first quarter of 2004 benefited from the comparison to the softness experienced in the first quarter of 2003 prior to the Iraq war. Strength in sales of retail automation and leak detection equipment in the U.S., Europe and China were the primary drivers of the growth from existing businesses. 23 Table of Contents Hach/Langes sales growth from existing businesses also contributed to the increase with high single digit growth. Hach/Lange achieved higher than market growth in both the laboratory and process instrumentation markets in both the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, Europe, and also experienced continued strength in China. The Companys Hach Ultra Analytics business reported accelerated growth in the second half of 2004 driven by strong U.S. and Asian sales. The business benefited from strength in the electronics and food and beverage end markets. Electronic Test. Electronic test sales grew 19.5% during 2004 compared to 2003. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 7.5% growth, revenues from existing businesses provided 8.5% growth and favorable currency translation provided 3.5% growth. Year over year growth rates in the second half of 2004 declined somewhat from the rates reported in the first half of 2004. The decline is the result of lapping stronger sales quarters which began for this business in the second half of 2003 as well as a result of the expiration of a multi year resale agreement relating to a low margin product line. Growth resulted from strength in the U.S. industrial channel, the European electrical channel and overall strong growth in China. The Companys network test business achieved 20% growth during the year, reflecting continued strength in network analysis, copper and fiber equipment sales and strong enterprise market share gains. The business also benefited from delivery of a large order in the fourth quarter of 2004 for test equipment to service a telecommunication customers next generation service offerings. Medical Technologies. All of the medical technologies sales growth represents acquisition related growth as this line of business was established in 2004 with the acquisitions of Radiometer, Gendex and KaVo. Radiometers critical care diagnostics business experienced growth across all major geographies, driven by strong instrument placements and related accessory sales. Radiometers high single digit sales growth was somewhat offset by the KaVo and Gendex dental unit business, which was impacted by significant pre acquisition sales incentive programs in the United States and Japan implemented by the former owners. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic businesses, product identification and motion, and three focused niche businesses, power quality, aerospace and defense, and sensors & controls. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Operating Performance Sales $ 2,908.1 $ 2,619.5 $ 2,157.0 Operating profit 426.4 383.1 311.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 14.7 % 14.6 % 14.5 % 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Components of Sales Growth Existing businesses 5.0 % 9.0 % Acquisitions 6.0 % 9.5 % Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 3.0 % Total 11.0 % 21.5 % 24 Table of Contents 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 As detailed in the above table, sales of the Industrial Technologies segment increased 11.0% in 2005 over 2004. Sales from existing businesses increased due primarily to sales growth in the product identification and aerospace and defense businesses. Sales from existing businesses for the Companys motion businesses were flat during 2005 compared to 2004. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2004. The first quarter 2005 acquisition of Linx Printing Technologies PLC together with several other smaller acquisitions in 2005 accounted for a 6.0% increase in segment sales. The impact of currency translation in the year was negligible. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.7% in 2005 including the effect of a $15.5 million charge (0.5%) to settle litigation associated with activities of a business that occurred prior to the Companys ownership of the business. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the impact of this settlement is required to be accounted for in 2005 since the settlement occurred after December 31, 2005 but before the release of the financial statements (refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information) Operating profit margins were 14.6% in 2004. The improvements in operating profit margins for the year reflect additional leverage from sales growth; on going cost reductions associated with our Danaher Business System initiatives completed during 2004 and 2005, primarily within the Companys motion businesses; and margin improvements in businesses acquired in prior years, which typically have higher cost structures than the Companys existing operations. Operating margin also benefited from a $4.6 million pre tax gain on the sale of a small business which occurred in the second quarter of 2005. These positive impacts were partly offset by a $5 million impairment charge recorded in the third quarter of 2005 related to a minority investment; the dilutive effects of operating margins from businesses recently acquired; and higher expense levels to support strategic growth and restructuring initiatives, primarily in the product identification and motion businesses. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses, and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives, are both expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in the segment in future periods. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in 2005. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 26.0% in 2005 compared to 2004. Existing businesses provided 9.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 16.0% growth, and favorable currency impacts accounted for approximately 0.5% growth. Sales of marking systems equipment and related service within the Videojet business for 2005 increased at mid single digit rates over 2004. This marking systems growth primarily resulted from strength in the North American, China and Latin American markets. The Company also continued to see growth in both its laser product offerings and thermo transfer overlay product offerings. The Companys increased sales and marketing efforts implemented earlier in 2005 also contributed to this growth. In addition, growth in sales from existing operations for 2005 were driven by strong systems installation sales within the Accu Sort scanning business, particularly sales to the United States Postal Service (USPS). The Company expects AccuSorts sales to decline in 2006 compared to 2005 as a result of completing this large USPS project in early 2006. Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2005, increased approximately 2.5% compared to the same period of 2004. Sales from existing businesses were flat compared with prior year levels; acquisitions accounted for approximately 2.5% growth in sales and the impact of currency translation was negligible. Sales from existing businesses slowed from strong 2004 levels. The business continued to experience strength in its electric vehicle product line, although at lower growth rates than experienced in 2004, as well as growth in the aviation and defense market. In addition, the elevator end market showed continued strength in 2005. However, the business experienced softness in the technology and electronic assembly end markets in 2005. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate showed 10.0% sales growth in 2005 compared to 2004. Growth in the existing businesses was primarily driven by sales growth from the Companys aerospace and defense businesses, principally the electro optical and safety product lines as well as strength in the Companys power quality businesses. These improvements were partially offset by slight declines in the Companys sensors and controls business due to a slowing technology market and more difficult comparisons with the business 2004 results which were strong by historical standards. 2005 sales were negatively impacted by 1.0% due to the sale of a small business in June 2005 for which previously reported sales have not been restated. 25 Table of Contents 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales of the Industrial Technologies segment increased approximately 21.5% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales from existing businesses for this segment contributed approximately 9% to the overall growth compared to 2003, driven by sales increases in all businesses with particularly strong sales increases in the Companys motion businesses. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, were negligible compared to 2003. Acquisitions contributed approximately 9.5% to the growth during the year driven in large part by acquisitions within the Companys product identification business. The impact of favorable currency translation generated approximately 3% growth compared to 2003. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.6% in 2004 compared to 14.5% in 2003. The overall improvement in operating profit margins for 2004 was driven primarily by additional leverage from sales growth, on going cost reductions associated with Danaher Business System initiatives and reductions in manufacturing costs through low cost region sourcing and production initiatives implemented during 2004 and 2003. Margin improvements were partially offset by lower margins associated with the start up stage of new business initiatives with certain OEMs in the Companys motion business. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Product Identification. For 2004, product identification revenues grew 38.5% compared to 2003, with acquisitions providing 29.0% growth, favorable currency impacts of approximately 3.5%, and sales from existing operations providing 6.0% growth. Growth in sales from existing businesses was broad based across the product portfolio. The growth was driven by strong equipment sales, primarily continuous ink jet printer sales in China and North America, but increasingly in the laser, thermal transfer overprint and binary array product offerings. Year over year growth rates for the second half of 2004 were somewhat lower compared with the growth rates in the first half of 2004 reflecting the normalization of revenues associated with the 2003 Willett acquisition as well as continued integration activities related to recent acquisitions. The reading and scanning business acquired in late 2003 also experienced growth, primarily from systems installation projects with the United States Postal Service. Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses grew 20% in 2004 compared to 2003, as sales from existing businesses contributed 13.0% to the overall reported growth, acquisitions provided growth of 3.5% and favorable currency translation effects provided 3.5% growth. The growth in sales from existing businesses was broad based, both geographically and across the markets served. The North American market for direct drive products, and the worldwide semiconductor and flat panel display markets demonstrated particular strength during 2004 and contributed significantly to the businesses overall growth. The business experienced a significant increase in sales associated with electric vehicle projects won in prior periods and believes it captured market share in 2004 as many motion control applications have shifted to the use of AC motor technology solutions. The Companys linear actuator product businesses continued to grow in 2004, primarily resulting from strong market growth for ball screw and gearbox product offerings in both North America and Europe. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate showed 16% sales growth in 2004, primarily from high single digit growth from existing businesses, largely attributable to the Companys sensors & controls and aerospace & defense businesses, and to a lesser extent due to the impact of acquisitions in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses. TOOLS & COMPONENTS The Tools & Components segment is one of the largest domestic producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include tool boxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and precision fasteners and miniature components. Tools & Components Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 1,294.5 $ 1,306.3 $ 1,197.2 Operating profit 199.3 198.3 173.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 15.4 % 15.2 % 14.5 % 26 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Existing businesses 4.0 % 9.5 % Divestiture (5.0 )% (0.5 )% Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 0.0 % Total (1.0 )% 9.0 % 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 Sales in the Tools & Components segment decreased 1.0% in 2005 compared to 2004. The 2005 period sales were negatively impacted by 5.0% on a year over year basis due to the sale of a small business in late 2004 for which previously reported sales have not been restated. Sales from existing businesses contributed approximately 4.0% growth for the segment in 2005, including approximately 2.0% growth due to price increases that the Company implemented as a result of cost increases in steel and other commodities. There were no acquisitions in this segment during 2004 or 2005 and currency impacts on sales were negligible in both periods. Mechanics Hand Tools sales, representing approximately two thirds of segment sales in 2005, grew approximately 4.0% in 2005, compared with 2004. The sales growth was driven primarily by sales growth in the groups high end mobile tool distribution business which experienced low double digit growth during the year driven by increases in both the number of distributors and their average purchase levels. Mechanics Hand Tools also experienced significant growth in 2005 in the China market. The business retail mechanics hand tools business declined at low single digit levels during 2005 compared with 2004. The integration of Sears and Kmart, a major customer of the segment, tempered the business 2005 sales growth. The Company believes the merger of Sears and Kmart may result in further reductions to Sears/Kmarts inventory levels during the first half of 2006. The segments niche businesses also experienced mid single digit growth during 2005 due primarily to strength in the truck box and engine retarder businesses. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.4% in 2005 compared to 15.2% in 2004. The improvement in operating profit margins for 2005 primarily relates to the pricing initiatives implemented to offset a portion of the steel and other commodity cost increases experienced beginning in 2004; the impact of higher sales levels and the impact of Danaher Business System cost reduction programs implemented in 2004 and 2005; and the impact of a gain recorded on the sale of real estate totaling $5.3 million ($3.9 million after taxes) during the first quarter of 2005. These improvements more than offset the incremental costs associated with closing one of the segments manufacturing facilities. The Company incurred approximately $11 million in costs associated with this plant closure in 2005. This plant closure provided minimal benefit to operating margins in 2005 but is expected to contribute to earnings in 2006. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives are all expected to further improve segment operating margins in future periods. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales in the Tools & Components segment grew 9.0% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales volumes from existing businesses contributed 9.5% and were offset slightly by the impact of a small divestiture during 2004. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to reported revenue. There were no acquisitions in this segment during either 2004 or 2003 and currency impacts on revenues were negligible in both periods. Sales in the Mechanics Hand Tools business grew approximately 8.5% for the year, driven primarily by increases in sales from the groups retail hand tool product lines, high end mobile distribution business and industrial distribution businesses. The Companys Matco business grew at low double digit rates for 2004 which the Company believes outpaced the overall market growth. The Companys engine retarder and chuck businesses also experienced low double digit growth rates. The other niche businesses within the segment also experienced mid to high single digit growth rates during 2004. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.2% in 2004 compared to 14.5% in 2003. This improvement was driven by leverage on increased sales volume and the impact of cost reduction programs implemented in 2003 and 2004 offset partially by increases in price and surcharges related to steel purchases incurred in the third quarter. Price increases were implemented to recover a portion of the increase in raw material costs. The Company commenced a plant closing in the fourth quarter of 2004 which reduced overall operating profit for 2004 by about $5 million. 27 Table of Contents GROSS PROFIT For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 Cost of sales 4,539.7 3,996.6 3,154.8 Gross profit $ 3,445.0 $ 2,892.7 $ 2,139.1 Gross profit margin 43.1 % 42.0 % 40.4 % Gross profit margins for 2005 improved 110 basis points to 43.1% from 42.0% in 2004. This improvement resulted primarily from generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired, leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our DBS processes and low cost region initiatives, and cost reductions in recently acquired business units. In addition, selected increases in selling prices and recent reductions of commodity costs also contributed to gross profit expansion. Partly offsetting these improvements are the costs associated with closing a manufacturing facility in the Tools & Components segment referred to above. Gross profit could be negatively impacted in future periods by higher raw material costs and supply constraints resulting from the improving overall economy or any significant slowdown in the economy. Gross profit margins for 2004 improved 160 basis points to 42.0% compared to 40.4% in 2003. This improvement resulted primarily from leverage on increased sales volume. In addition, gross profit margins benefited from generally higher gross profit margins in businesses acquired (principally Radiometer) and the ongoing cost improvements in existing business units driven by the Companys DBS processes and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives. Increases in cost and surcharges related to steel purchases partially offset these improvements. OPERATING EXPENSES For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,175.8 1,795.7 1,316.4 SG&A as a % of sales 27.2 % 26.1 % 24.9 % The year over year increases in selling, general and administrative expenses are due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses (principally KaVo and Leica Microsystems in 2005 and Radiometer and KaVo in 2004) and their higher relative operating expense structures, additional spending to fund growth opportunities throughout the Company, and the increased proportion of sales derived from our international operations which generally have higher operating expense structures compared to the Company as a whole. In addition, selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 reflect a charge for settlement of pre acquisition litigation (refer to Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). GAIN ON PENSION PLAN CURTAILMENT The Company recorded a curtailment gain in 2003 as a result of freezing substantially all associates ongoing participation in its Cash Balance Plan effective December 31, 2003. The gain totaled $22.5 million ($14.6 million after tax, or $0.05 per share) and represented the unrecognized benefits associated with prior plan amendments that were being amortized into income over the remaining service period of the participating associates prior to freezing the plan. The Company will continue recording pension expense related to this plan, primarily representing interest costs on the accumulated benefit obligation and amortization of actuarial losses accumulated in the plan prior to the curtailment. 28 Table of Contents INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense for 2005 was lower than the prior year by approximately $10.1 million. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower debt levels in 2005 as a result of the repayment of the Companys 6.25% Eurobond notes and to a lesser extent, lower borrowing rates on new borrowings during the period. Interest expense of $55 million in 2004 was approximately $4 million lower than the corresponding 2003 period. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the cessation of amortization of deferred financing costs related to the Companys LYONS, offset slightly by the unfavorable impact of the Euro/US Dollar exchange rate on interest expense related to the Companys $406.8 million of 6.25% Eurobond notes (which were subsequently repaid in the third quarter of 2005). Interest income of $14.7 million, $7.6 million and $10.1 million was recognized in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company collected $4.6 million of interest on a note receivable which had not previously been recorded due to collection risk (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, higher overall interest rates in 2005 compared to 2004 increased interest income from prior year levels. Average invested cash balances decreased in 2004 compared with the 2003 levels due to deploying these cash balances to complete several acquisitions. The decline in interest income as a result of these lower invested cash balances was partially offset by the Company maintaining a higher proportion of available cash in international markets which had higher overall interest rates and higher short term rates in 2004. INCOME TAXES The Companys effective tax rate for 2005 of 27.3% was 2.2 percentage points lower than the 2004 effective rate, mainly due to the effect of a higher proportion of foreign earnings in 2005 compared to 2004. The Company also resolved examinations of certain previously filed U.S. and international tax returns and provided additional reserves for other matters arising during the third fiscal quarter of 2005. Resolution of these matters resulted in a small benefit from the reversal of previously provided tax reserves. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2006 is expected to be approximately 26.5%. The 2004 effective tax rate of 29.5% was 3.1 percentage points lower than the 2003 effective rate, mainly due to the effect of a higher proportion of non U.S. earnings in 2004 compared to 2003 as well as the impact of changes made to the Companys international tax structure, primarily related to the acquisition and integration of Radiometer and KaVo during 2004. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, material audit assessments and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate in 2005, 2004 and 2003 differed from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. United States income taxes have not been provided on earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2005, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States was approximately $2.1 billion. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) provided the Company with an opportunity to repatriate up to $500 million of foreign earnings during 2005 at an effective US tax rate of 5.25%. The Company did not repatriate any foreign earnings under the provisions of the Act. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for potential tax contingencies. Based on these reviews and the result of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Companys estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Companys earnings and or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates. INFLATION Other than increases in commodity pricing noted above, the effect of inflation on the Companys operations has been minimal in 2005, 2004, and 2003. 29 Table of Contents FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt would decrease by approximately $4 million. This methodology has certain limitations, and these hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Companys results of operations or financial condition under current accounting principles. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6% notes due 2008 having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Other than the above noted swap arrangements, there were no material derivative financial instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. Additionally, the Company does not have significant commodity contracts or other derivatives. Exchange Rate Risk The Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells its products globally. As a result, it is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. Dollar and against the currencies of other countries in which it manufactures and sells products and services. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. Dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its non U.S. operations without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. The Companys previously outstanding Eurobond notes, which were repaid in the third quarter of 2005, provided a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, interest rate swap agreements and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company anticipates, however, that counter parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under these instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments and its interest rate swap agreements with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support these financial instruments, it does periodically evaluate the credit standing of the counter party financial institutions. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate. 30 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity For the years ended, December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Total operating cash flows $ 1,203.8 $ 1,033.2 $ 861.5 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (121.2 ) (115.9 ) (80.3 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (885.1 ) (1,591.7 ) (312.3 ) Other sources 40.9 74.0 24.5 Net cash used in investing activities (965.4 ) (1,633.6 ) (368.1 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 59.9 45.9 50.5 Repayments of borrowings, net (292.2 ) (66.3 ) (145.5 ) Dividends paid (21.6 ) (17.7 ) (15.3 ) Purchase of treasury stock (257.7 ) Net cash used in financing activities (511.6 ) (38.1 ) (110.3 ) Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity was $1,203.8 million for 2005, an increase of $170.6 million, or approximately 16.5% as compared to 2004. Earnings growth contributed $151.8 million to the increase in operating cash flow in 2005 compared to 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company held $315.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash in all periods presented. The Company acquired 13 companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $885.1 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In the second quarter of 2005, the Companys Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time. During 2005 the Company repurchased approximately 5 million shares of Company common stock at an aggregate cost of $257.7 million, funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. The Companys Eurobond notes with a stated amount of 300 million were issued in July 2000 and bore interest at 6.25% per annum. Upon maturity in July 2005, the Company repaid these notes from available cash in the amount of $362 million. The Company currently has a total of $1 billion available for borrowing under two $500 million lines of credit which mature in June and July, 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 there were no amounts outstanding under these credit facilities. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity, was approximately $1.2 billion for 2005, an increase of $171 million, or approximately 16.5% as compared to 2004. Earnings growth contributed $152 million to the increase in operating cash flow in the 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization accounted for $21 million of the improvement in cash flow 31 Table of Contents on a year over year basis. Operating working capital, which the company defines as accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable, also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Cash used for accounts receivable decreased by $43 million during 2005 compared to 2004. This decrease primarily relates to significant increases in accounts receivable in 2004 as a result of an accelerating sales environment. In addition, the Company realized higher cash flow benefits from accounts payable compared to 2004, primarily as a result of the timing of vendor payments. These improvements were partially offset by cash used for inventory to support growing sales levels which used $88 million more cash in 2005 compared to 2004. Inventory turns improved on a year to year basis, driven particularly by improvements in newly acquired businesses. The timing of tax payments and changes in deferred taxes in 2005 compared to 2004 negatively impacted cash flow by $17 million for 2005 compared to 2004. In addition, timing related increases in prepaid expenses associated with the timing of payments for certain of the Companys benefit programs, including 401(k) and employee health plan contributions negatively impacted 2005 cash flow. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing duplicate facilities, severing redundant personnel and integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with each acquisition. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $965 million in 2005 compared to approximately $1.6 billion in 2004. Capital spending increased $5 million in 2005 from 2004 levels to $121 million. Capital expenditures are made primarily to support product development, for increasing capacity, replacement of equipment and improving information technology systems. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $1.6 billion in 2004 compared to $368 million of net cash used in 2003. Gross capital spending of $116 million for 2004 increased $36 million from 2003, due to capital spending relating to new acquisitions and spending related to the Companys low cost region manufacturing initiatives, new products and other growth opportunities. In 2006, the Company expects capital spending of approximately $150 million, although actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Disposals of fixed assets yielded approximately $19 million and $31 million of cash proceeds for 2005 and 2004, respectively. As discussed below, the Company completed several business acquisitions and divestitures during 2005, 2004 and 2003. All of the acquisitions during this time period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 2005 Acquisitions In the first quarter of 2005 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Linx Printing Technologies PLC, a publicly held U.K based coding and marking business, for $171 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of $2 million. Linx complements the Companys product identification businesses and had annual revenue of approximately $93 million in 2004. In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of German based Leica Microsystems AG, for an aggregate purchase price of 210 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of 12 million and the assumption and repayment at closing of 125 million outstanding Leica debt ($429 million in aggregate). The Company funded this acquisition and the payment of debt assumed using available cash and through borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit totaling $222 million, a portion of which was repaid prior to December 31, 2005. Leica complements the Companys medical technologies business and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested, as described below). In September 2005, the Company also completed the sale of Leica Microsystems semiconductor equipment business which was held for sale at the time of the acquisition. This business had historically operated at a loss. Proceeds from the sale have been reflected as a reduction in the purchase price for Leica Microsystems in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Operating losses for this business for the period from acquisition to disposition totaled approximately $1.3 million and are reflected in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. In addition to Linx and Leica Microsystems, the Company acquired 11 smaller companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $285 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as electronic test, dental, sensors and controls, aerospace and defense and motion controls. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of either the Professional Instrumentation or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregated annual sales of these 11 acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions were approximately $260 million and each of these companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. 32 Table of Contents In June 2005, the Company divested one insignificant business that was reported as a continuing operation within the Industrial Technologies segment for aggregate proceeds of $12.1 million in cash net of related transaction expenses. The Company recorded a pre tax gain of $4.6 million on the divestiture which is reported as a component of Gains in Real Estate and Other Assets, Net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Sales related to this business included in the Companys results for 2005 were $7.5 million. Net cash proceeds received on the sale are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In June 2005, the Company collected $14.6 million in full payment of a retained interest that was in the form of a $10 million note receivable and an equity interest arising from the sale of a prior business. The Company had recorded this note net of applicable allowances and had not previously recognized interest income on the note due to uncertainties associated with collection of the principal balance of the note and the related interest. As a result of the collection, the Company recorded $4.6 million of interest income related to the cumulative interest received on this note in the second quarter of 2005. In addition, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $5.3 million related to collection of the note balance in the second quarter of 2005 which has been recorded as a component of Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Cash proceeds from the collection of the principal balance of $10 million are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 2004 Acquisitions In January 2004, the Company acquired all of the share capital of Radiometer S/A for $684 million in cash (net of $77 million in acquired cash), including transaction costs. In addition, the Company assumed $66 million of debt in connection with the acquisition. Radiometer designs, manufactures, and markets a variety of blood gas diagnostic instrumentation, primarily used in hospital applications. The Company also provides consumables and services for its instruments. Radiometer is a worldwide leader in its served markets, and had total annual sales of approximately $300 million at the time of acquisition. In May 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Kaltenbach & Voight Gmbh (KaVo) for 350 million ($412 million) in cash, including transaction costs and net of $45 million in acquired cash. KaVo, headquartered in Biberach, Germany, with 2003 revenues of approximately $450 million, is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and sale of dental equipment, including hand pieces, treatment units and diagnostic systems and laboratory equipment. In November 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Trojan Technologies, Inc. for aggregate consideration of $185 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of $23 million in acquired cash. In addition, the Company assumed $4 million of debt in connection with the acquisition. Trojan is a leader in the ultraviolet disinfection market for drinking and wastewater applications and had annual revenues of approximately $115 million at the time of acquisition. In addition to Radiometer, KaVo and Trojan, the Company acquired ten smaller companies and product lines during 2004 for total consideration of $311 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of instrumentation products, in markets such as medical technologies, electronic test, motion, environmental, product identification, sensors and controls, and aerospace and defense. These companies were all acquired to complement existing businesses or as additions to the newly formed medical technology line of business within the Professional Instrumentation segment. The aggregate annual sales of these acquired businesses as of the respective dates of acquisition were approximately $280 million and each of these companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. In addition, the company sold a business that was part of the Tools & Components segment during 2004. This business was insignificant to reported sales and earnings. Proceeds from this sale have been included in proceeds from divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The pre tax gain on the sale of $1.5 million ($1.1 million after tax) is included in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 2003 Acquisitions The Company acquired twelve companies and product lines during 2003 for total consideration of $312 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. The Company also assumed debt with an estimated fair market value of $45 million in connection with these acquisitions. In connection with one of the 2003 acquisitions, the Company entered into an agreement to pay an additional maximum contingent consideration of up to $36.8 million in November 2008 based on future performance of the acquired business through November 2008. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as product identification, environmental and aerospace and defense. These companies were all acquired to complement existing business units of the Professional Instrumentation or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregated annual revenues of the acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions were approximately $361 million and each of these 33 Table of Contents twelve companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. In addition, the Company sold one facility acquired in connection with a prior acquisition for approximately $11.6 million in net proceeds. No gain or loss was recognized on the sale and the proceeds have been included in proceeds from divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Recent Acquisition Developments Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Visual Networks, Inc. for a total purchase price of $75 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of estimated cash acquired. Visual Networks will complement businesses within the electronic test business and had 2004 revenues of approximately $53 million. In January 2006, the Company commenced an all cash tender offer for all of the outstanding ordinary shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. based public company. In connection with the offer, the Company acquired an aggregate of 19.5% of First Technologys issued share capital for approximately $86 million. A competing bidder subsequently made an offer that surpassed the Companys bid, and as a result the Company has lapsed its offer for First Technology. The Company is evaluating its options, one of which may be to tender its shares into the other bidders offer. If the Company tenders into the other bidders offer and such other offer obtains regulatory approval and successfully closes at the current offer price, the Company would record a gain related to this transaction of approximately $13 million, including a break up fee of approximately $3 million, net of transaction related costs. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Financing activities used cash of $512 million during 2005 compared to $38 million used during the comparable period of 2004, primarily for the repurchase of common stock and the repayment of indebtedness. On April 21, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys 1998 Stock Option Plan and for other corporate purposes. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $257.7 million. The repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. At December 31, 2005, the Company had 5 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or existing lines of credit. Total debt was $1,042 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $1,350 million at December 31, 2004. This decrease was due primarily to repayment of $362 million of the Companys Eurobonds as required upon maturity in July 2005. This decrease was partially offset by $104 million in borrowings, net of repayments, associated with the purchase of Leica Microsystems described above and by the accretion of amounts due under the LYONs discussed below. The Companys debt financing as of December 31, 2005 was comprised primarily of $580 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs), $250 million of 6% notes due 2008 (subject to the interest rate swaps described above) and $177 million of borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. During the first quarter of 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375%. Holders of the LYONs may convert each of their LYONs into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2005, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was $48 per share which, at that date, was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. The Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period commencing after January 22, 2004 if the average market price of a LYON for a measurement period preceding such six month period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The Company has not and is not currently required to pay contingent interest under this agreement. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. The Company maintains two revolving senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $1 billion available for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under the revolving credit facilities bear interest of Eurocurrency rate plus 0.21% to 0.70%, depending on the Companys 34 Table of Contents debt rating. The credit facilities, each $500 million, have a fixed term expiring June 28, 2006 and July 23, 2006, respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under either of the Companys credit facilities at any time during 2004 or 2005. The Company expects to enter into a new credit facility in 2006. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. However, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys credit facilities. Also, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude the Companys ability to consider commercial paper as a potential source of financing. The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share payable on January 27, 2006 to holders of record on December 31, 2005. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2005 were $21.6 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2005, the Company held $316 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants under the aforementioned debt instruments, including limitations on secured debt and debt levels. In addition, as of the date of this Form 10 K, the Company could issue up to $1 billion of securities under its shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. In order to meet these cash requirements, the Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds. The Company currently anticipates that any acquisitions consummated during 2006 would be funded from available cash and internally generated funds and, if necessary, through the establishment of a commercial paper program, through borrowings under its credit facilities, under uncommitted lines of credit or by accessing the capital markets. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy both short term and long term requirements. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. Most of the amounts held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient inter company transfer of funds, the Companys intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Pension and Other Post Retirement & Employee Benefit Plans Due to declines in the equity markets in 2001 and 2002, the fair value of the Companys United States pension fund assets decreased below the accumulated benefit obligation due to the participants in the plan. In addition, certain of the Companys non United States plans are under funded. As a result, in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, the Company has recorded a minimum pension liability of $175.5 million ($116.0 million net of tax benefits) cumulatively through December 31, 2005. The minimum pension liability is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined accumulated benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets as of September 30, 2005 (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 for additional information). This adjustment results in a direct reduction of stockholders equity and does not immediately impact net earnings, but is included in other comprehensive income (loss). Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in such calculations. These assumptions include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 5.5% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2005, which represented a decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% from the rate used at December 31, 2004. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A further 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the after tax minimum pension liability $9.4 million ($6.8 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2005. For 2005, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States plan was estimated at 8.0% which reflects a 50 basis point reduction from the rate used in 2004. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The plan maintains between 60% to 70% of its assets in equity portfolios, which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities. The balance of the asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension expense for the U.S. plan for the year 35 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2005 was $8.1 million (or $5.9 million on an after tax basis), compared with $4.3 million (or $3.0 million on an after tax basis) for this plan in 2004. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by an additional 0.50%, pension expense for 2005 would have increased $2.2 million (or $1.6 million on an after tax basis). While the Company was not required to make a contribution to the plan in 2005, it made a voluntary contribution of $10 million in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005. The Company is not statutorily required to make contributions to the plan in 2006. The Companys non U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 3.0% to 7.5% for 2005. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 1,024.9 181.4 252.6 6.4 584.5 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 16.8 2.6 5.3 6.0 2.9 Total Long Term Debt 1,041.7 184.0 257.9 12.4 587.4 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations 307.2 25.6 31.6 1.6 248.4 Operating Lease Obligations (c) 285.0 58.8 100.2 68.1 57.9 Other: Purchase Obligations (d) 5.3 5.3 Other Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (e) 2,258.2 1,301.8 158.9 119.0 678.5 Total $ 3,897.4 $ 1,575.5 $ 548.6 $ 201.1 $ 1,572.2 (a) As described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (e) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation liabilities. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon managements estimates over the terms of these agreements and are largely based upon historical experience. 36 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company has no off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period TotalAmountsCommitted Less Than One Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years ($ in millions) Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 136.2 $ 33.0 $ 55.6 $ 13.0 $ 34.6 Guarantees 36.6 25.2 1.9 0.3 9.2 Contingent Acquisition Consideration 47.2 6.0 4.4 36.8 Total $ 220.0 $ 64.2 $ 61.9 $ 50.1 $ 43.8 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. In connection with four separate past acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate over the next five years pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $47.2 million over the next five years depending on the future performance of the respective businesses. The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as environmental liabilities and tax liabilities. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Due to the Companys downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Except as described above, the Company has not entered into any off balance sheet financing arrangements as of December 31, 2005. Also, the Company does not have any unconsolidated special purpose entities as of December 31, 2005. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Notes 11 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain outstanding litigation matters. In addition, the Company is, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, allegations of patent and trademark infringement and trade secret misappropriation, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, auto, product, 37 Table of Contents general liability, and directors and officers liability insurance (and have acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes covers a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. The Company believes that the results of existing litigation matters will not have a materially adverse effect on the Companys cash flows or financial condition, even before taking into account any related insurance recoveries. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions for workers compensation, property, automobile, product and general liability costs, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Companys accrual for self insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. For more information regarding how the Company determines reserves for certain self insurance liabilities, see Critical Accounting Policies Risk Insurance. The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of such director or officer serving any other entity at the request of the Company, subject to limited exceptions. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. For a discussion of risks related to environmental, health and safety laws, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect managements more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Companys customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Companys customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its customers. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company would be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or events indicate a change in the impairment status. In calculating the fair value of the reporting units, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. 38 Table of Contents The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of the Companys reporting units as of October 1, 2005, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $130 million to approximately $2.8 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $100 million to approximately $2.4 billion for each of the Companys reporting units. Long lived assets. The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Companys long lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, long lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination, the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Companys experience in acquiring other companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired companys business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the integration plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities required to integrate the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the Companys results of operations. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. Risk Insurance. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions with respect to various business risks. The business risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability. For domestic workers compensation and product liability risk, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to the retained liability. These reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists for workers compensation and by outside risk insurance experts for product liability. In addition, outside risk experts recommend reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims by evaluating the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2005 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. Environmental. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that it has potential remediation liability for properties currently owned or previously sold, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its exposure for environmental related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability as such claims become known. While the Company actively pursues appropriate insurance recoveries as well as appropriate recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Companys involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the Companys estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 39 Table of Contents Contingent Liabilities. The Company is, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, allegations of patent and trademark infringement and trade secret misappropriation, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Companys settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including managements judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 40 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with its audited consolidated financial statements. OVERVIEW Danaher Corporation strives to create shareholder value through: delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for its products and services; upper quartile financial performance when compared against peer companies; and upper quartile cash flow generation from operations when compared against peer companies. To accomplish these goals, the Company uses a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (DBS), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. The Company also acquires businesses that it believes can help it achieve the objectives described above. The Company will acquire businesses when they strategically fit with existing operations or when they are of such a nature and size as to establish a new strategic line of business. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and integrated can affect the Companys overall growth and operating results. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. Approximately 47% of Danahers sales were derived outside the United States in 2005. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry economic and political factors. However, Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Companys order rates are highly indicative of the Companys future revenue and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. In those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. While differences exist among the Companys businesses, the Company generally continued to see broad based market expansion during 2005, but at lower rates than in 2004. Management believes that this moderation in growth rates reflects more difficult comparisons with the Companys 2004 fiscal periods, which were strong for the Company by historical standards, as well as slower growth in technology end markets and current global economic conditions. Consolidated sales for 2005 increased approximately 16.0% over 2004. Sales from existing businesses for the year (references to sales from existing businesses in this report include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect) contributed approximately 4.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 11.5% growth. The impact of currency translation on sales was negligible for the year as the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the second half of the year offset weakness of the U.S. dollar in the first half of the year. The growth in sales resulting from acquisitions in 2005 primarily relates to acquisitions in the Companys medical technologies business. The Company established its medical technologies business through the acquisitions of Radiometer A/S and substantially all the assets and certain liabilities of the Gendex business of Dentsply International Inc. in January 2004 and Kaltenbach & Voight Gmbh (KaVo) in May 2004. The medical technologies business has provided a foundation for additional sales and earnings growth as the Company has acquired additional companies to complement the initial medical technologies businesses. During 2005, the Company acquired four medical technologies businesses, the largest being the acquisition of Leica Microsystems AG in August 2005. Leica Microsystems is a leading global provider of life sciences instrumentation and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested). The Companys medical technologies business is expected to continue to provide sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company, both through expansion of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in the markets and geographies served. The Companys performance will be impacted by its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and 20 Table of Contents geographies served, including trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of market opportunities in Asia and recent increases in raw material costs. The Company will continue to assess market needs with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner. With the formation of the medical technologies business in 2004 and expansion of this business in 2005, the Company is devoting significant attention to the successful integration and restructuring of these acquired businesses. Although the Company has a U.S. Dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, a substantial portion of its sales are derived from foreign countries. Sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, reported sales are affected by changes in currency rates, which are outside of the control of management. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its investment in foreign operations without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales and profit in the Companys consolidated financial statements. As noted above, the impact of currency trends in the Companys international businesses during 2005 when compared to 2004 was negligible for the full year, despite fluctuations during periods within the year. The following sensitivity analysis demonstrates the recent strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major currencies. Applying the exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2005 to the translation of the financial statements for the Companys non U.S. operations for 2005 would result in approximately 1.3% lower overall Company sales than what was actually reported using the rates in effect during this reporting period. Any further strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major currencies would have a further adverse impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated: For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Professional Instrumentation $ 3,782.1 $ 2,963.5 $ 1,939.7 Industrial Technologies 2,908.1 2,619.5 2,157.0 Tools & Components 1,294.5 1,306.3 1,197.2 Total $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION As of December 31, 2005, the Professional Instrumentation segment was Danahers largest segment and encompasses three strategic businesses: environmental, electronic test, and medical technologies. Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 3,782.1 $ 2,963.5 $ 1,939.7 Operating Profit 677.0 554.5 362.6 Operating profit as a % of sales 17.9 % 18.7 % 18.7 % 21 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Existing businesses 4.5 % 8.5 % Acquisitions 23.0 % 40.5 % Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 4.0 % Total 27.5 % 53.0 % 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 As detailed in the table above, segment sales increased 27.5% for 2005 compared to 2004. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses increased in all three of the Companys strategic lines of business with the highest growth resulting from the electronic test and environmental water quality businesses. Sales in the Companys environmental and retail petroleum automation business were up low single digits for the year. The Companys dental equipment businesses were essentially flat compared with the period of ownership in 2004, but showed mid single digit growth for the fourth quarter of 2005 and on a full year pro forma basis when compared with the prior year. Operating profit margins for the segment were 17.9% in 2005 compared to 18.7% for 2004. Operating profit margins in the segment for 2005 compared with 2004 were adversely impacted by the dilutive impact of acquisitions, principally Leica Microsystems and KaVo. These recent acquisitions operate at lower overall operating profit margins than the segments ongoing businesses. In addition, 2005 operating profit margins for the segment reflect additional costs associated with restructuring actions within the dental business, which generally commenced in the third quarter of 2005. Operating profit margins for 2005 were also impacted by higher expense levels to support strategic growth initiatives in certain businesses. On going cost reduction initiatives through the application of the Danaher Business System, low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage created from sales growth compared with the prior year period, partially offset these adverse impacts. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses, the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage from anticipated sales growth are all expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses, including Leica Microsystems and KaVo, in future periods, but are expected to be offset to varying extents by continued investments in growth and restructuring initiatives. In particular, the Company expects that operating margins in its dental businesses will improve in 2006 as the Companys integration activities in those businesses take hold. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 44% of segment sales for 2005, increased approximately 12.5% in 2005 compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses accounted for approximately 5.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 7.5% growth. The impact of currency translation was negligible for 2005 compared to 2004. The Companys Hach/Lange water quality businesses reported high single digit growth in 2005 primarily driven by mid single digit growth in laboratory sales and low double digit growth in process instrumentation sales in both the United States and European markets. New product launches in 2005 positively impacted process instrumentation sales. The business sales in China also grew over 35% in 2005 on a year over year basis. The Companys Hach Ultra Analytics business reported mid single digit growth in 2005, driven primarily by high single digit growth in the U.S. partially offset by slowing sales in electronics end markets and in Europe. Sales growth from acquired businesses primarily reflects the impact of the acquisition of Trojan Technologies in November 2004 and two smaller water quality businesses during 2005. The Gilbarco Veeder Root environmental and retail petroleum automation business reported low single digit sales growth for 2005 compared to 2004. The business experienced growth in sales of environmental equipment in Asia and Latin America. Sales in Europe were down compared to 2004, due in part to the fact that 2004 sales included the impact of a large shipment. Sales in the U.S. were flat compared to 2004. Electronic Test. Sales from the Companys electronic test businesses, representing approximately 25% of segment sales for 2005, grew 16.0% compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 8.5% growth and favorable currency translation accounted for 1.0% growth. 22 Table of Contents Sales growth from existing businesses for 2005 built on strong performance experienced by this business throughout 2004. Key contributors to the 2005 growth included strength in the U.S. and European industrial and electrical channels, in each case driven by strong demand for recently introduced product offerings. Sales in China also showed strong growth during 2005. The Companys network test business reported flat sales growth for 2005 compared to a very strong 2004. The businesss 2004 results benefited from delivery of a large shipment in the fourth quarter of 2004 for test equipment to service a telecommunication customer. Medical Technologies. Sales from the Companys medical technologies business, representing approximately 31% of segment sales for 2005, increased 75.5% compared to 2004. Sales from existing businesses contributed approximately 2.5% growth during 2005. Acquisitions accounted for 75.0% growth. Unfavorable currency translation accounted for a 2.0% sales decline. As described above, the Company established the medical technologies business with the acquisitions of Radiometer and Gendex in the first quarter of 2004 and added to this business with the acquisition of KaVo in May 2004, the acquisition of Leica Microsystems AG in August 2005 as well as the acquisition of three smaller dental and medical instrumentation products companies during 2005. Radiometers business experienced mid single digit growth for 2005 over the comparable period of 2004. This performance was primarily the result of growth in North America and Japan, driven by placements of recently introduced products and related accessory sales, offset by weaker performance in Europe. Sales from existing businesses in the Companys dental businesses experienced mid single digit growth in fourth quarter of 2005 compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. For the full year 2005, the dental businesses sales growth was flat for the period of ownership, but would have reported mid single digit growth on a full year pro forma basis had they been included for a full year in both 2005 and 2004. Sales for 2005 were negatively impacted by changes in German reimbursement regulations as well as the reduction in promotional activity in 2005 while the business restructured certain German operations which occurred in the third and fourth quarters of 2005. Sales for 2005 benefited from strong growth experienced with the introduction of a new digital imaging product offering in the second half of 2005. The business also experienced sales growth due to the third quarter launch of a sensor line with US distribution as well as strong sales growth at Pelton & Crane, the Companys newest dental acquisition. The results of Leica Microsystems have been reflected in the Companys results of operations since its acquisition in August 2005. Leica Microsystems had annual revenues from continuing operations of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor equipment business that has been divested). Leica Microsystems current gross margins approximate the Companys overall gross margins and are not expected to dilute gross margins in future periods. However, Leica Microsystems operating profit margins are below the Company and segment average and will be dilutive in the near term. The Company expects to enhance the business operating margins through the application of the Danaher Business System. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales of the Professional Instrumentation segment increased approximately 53.0% in 2004 compared to 2003, largely as a result of sales from acquired businesses, which contributed approximately 40.5% of the overall increase. Sales from existing businesses for this segment contributed approximately 8.5% growth compared to 2003, principally from sales increases in the environmental and electronic test and measurement businesses. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2003. Favorable currency translation impact accounted for approximately 4.0% of the overall sales increase. Operating profit margins for the segment were 18.7% in 2004, flat compared to 2003. Operating profit margin improvements in the Companys existing operations were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses, primarily KaVo, which diluted segment margins compared with 2003. The Company continues to pursue on going cost reductions through application of the Danaher Business System and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives which are expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in future periods. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses increased approximately 16.0% in 2004 compared to 2003. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 3.0% growth, sales from existing businesses provided 9.0% growth and favorable currency translation provided 4.0% growth. Sales were positively impacted by continued strength in the Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum equipment business. Gilbarco Veeder Root delivered low double digit growth rates for the full year 2004, but slowed to a mid single digit growth rate on a comparable basis during the fourth quarter of 2004 compared to the fourth quarter of 2003 as a result of comparisons with the higher sales levels that began in the fourth quarter of 2003. In addition, growth rates for the first quarter of 2004 benefited from the comparison to the softness experienced in the first quarter of 2003 prior to the Iraq war. Strength in sales of retail automation and leak detection equipment in the U.S., Europe and China were the primary drivers of the growth from existing businesses. 23 Table of Contents Hach/Langes sales growth from existing businesses also contributed to the increase with high single digit growth. Hach/Lange achieved higher than market growth in both the laboratory and process instrumentation markets in both the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, Europe, and also experienced continued strength in China. The Companys Hach Ultra Analytics business reported accelerated growth in the second half of 2004 driven by strong U.S. and Asian sales. The business benefited from strength in the electronics and food and beverage end markets. Electronic Test. Electronic test sales grew 19.5% during 2004 compared to 2003. Acquisitions accounted for approximately 7.5% growth, revenues from existing businesses provided 8.5% growth and favorable currency translation provided 3.5% growth. Year over year growth rates in the second half of 2004 declined somewhat from the rates reported in the first half of 2004. The decline is the result of lapping stronger sales quarters which began for this business in the second half of 2003 as well as a result of the expiration of a multi year resale agreement relating to a low margin product line. Growth resulted from strength in the U.S. industrial channel, the European electrical channel and overall strong growth in China. The Companys network test business achieved 20% growth during the year, reflecting continued strength in network analysis, copper and fiber equipment sales and strong enterprise market share gains. The business also benefited from delivery of a large order in the fourth quarter of 2004 for test equipment to service a telecommunication customers next generation service offerings. Medical Technologies. All of the medical technologies sales growth represents acquisition related growth as this line of business was established in 2004 with the acquisitions of Radiometer, Gendex and KaVo. Radiometers critical care diagnostics business experienced growth across all major geographies, driven by strong instrument placements and related accessory sales. Radiometers high single digit sales growth was somewhat offset by the KaVo and Gendex dental unit business, which was impacted by significant pre acquisition sales incentive programs in the United States and Japan implemented by the former owners. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic businesses, product identification and motion, and three focused niche businesses, power quality, aerospace and defense, and sensors & controls. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Operating Performance Sales $ 2,908.1 $ 2,619.5 $ 2,157.0 Operating profit 426.4 383.1 311.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 14.7 % 14.6 % 14.5 % 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Components of Sales Growth Existing businesses 5.0 % 9.0 % Acquisitions 6.0 % 9.5 % Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 3.0 % Total 11.0 % 21.5 % 24 Table of Contents 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 As detailed in the above table, sales of the Industrial Technologies segment increased 11.0% in 2005 over 2004. Sales from existing businesses increased due primarily to sales growth in the product identification and aerospace and defense businesses. Sales from existing businesses for the Companys motion businesses were flat during 2005 compared to 2004. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2004. The first quarter 2005 acquisition of Linx Printing Technologies PLC together with several other smaller acquisitions in 2005 accounted for a 6.0% increase in segment sales. The impact of currency translation in the year was negligible. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.7% in 2005 including the effect of a $15.5 million charge (0.5%) to settle litigation associated with activities of a business that occurred prior to the Companys ownership of the business. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the impact of this settlement is required to be accounted for in 2005 since the settlement occurred after December 31, 2005 but before the release of the financial statements (refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information) Operating profit margins were 14.6% in 2004. The improvements in operating profit margins for the year reflect additional leverage from sales growth; on going cost reductions associated with our Danaher Business System initiatives completed during 2004 and 2005, primarily within the Companys motion businesses; and margin improvements in businesses acquired in prior years, which typically have higher cost structures than the Companys existing operations. Operating margin also benefited from a $4.6 million pre tax gain on the sale of a small business which occurred in the second quarter of 2005. These positive impacts were partly offset by a $5 million impairment charge recorded in the third quarter of 2005 related to a minority investment; the dilutive effects of operating margins from businesses recently acquired; and higher expense levels to support strategic growth and restructuring initiatives, primarily in the product identification and motion businesses. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses, and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives, are both expected to further improve operating margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in the segment in future periods. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in 2005. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 26.0% in 2005 compared to 2004. Existing businesses provided 9.5% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 16.0% growth, and favorable currency impacts accounted for approximately 0.5% growth. Sales of marking systems equipment and related service within the Videojet business for 2005 increased at mid single digit rates over 2004. This marking systems growth primarily resulted from strength in the North American, China and Latin American markets. The Company also continued to see growth in both its laser product offerings and thermo transfer overlay product offerings. The Companys increased sales and marketing efforts implemented earlier in 2005 also contributed to this growth. In addition, growth in sales from existing operations for 2005 were driven by strong systems installation sales within the Accu Sort scanning business, particularly sales to the United States Postal Service (USPS). The Company expects AccuSorts sales to decline in 2006 compared to 2005 as a result of completing this large USPS project in early 2006. Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2005, increased approximately 2.5% compared to the same period of 2004. Sales from existing businesses were flat compared with prior year levels; acquisitions accounted for approximately 2.5% growth in sales and the impact of currency translation was negligible. Sales from existing businesses slowed from strong 2004 levels. The business continued to experience strength in its electric vehicle product line, although at lower growth rates than experienced in 2004, as well as growth in the aviation and defense market. In addition, the elevator end market showed continued strength in 2005. However, the business experienced softness in the technology and electronic assembly end markets in 2005. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate showed 10.0% sales growth in 2005 compared to 2004. Growth in the existing businesses was primarily driven by sales growth from the Companys aerospace and defense businesses, principally the electro optical and safety product lines as well as strength in the Companys power quality businesses. These improvements were partially offset by slight declines in the Companys sensors and controls business due to a slowing technology market and more difficult comparisons with the business 2004 results which were strong by historical standards. 2005 sales were negatively impacted by 1.0% due to the sale of a small business in June 2005 for which previously reported sales have not been restated. 25 Table of Contents 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales of the Industrial Technologies segment increased approximately 21.5% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales from existing businesses for this segment contributed approximately 9% to the overall growth compared to 2003, driven by sales increases in all businesses with particularly strong sales increases in the Companys motion businesses. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, were negligible compared to 2003. Acquisitions contributed approximately 9.5% to the growth during the year driven in large part by acquisitions within the Companys product identification business. The impact of favorable currency translation generated approximately 3% growth compared to 2003. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.6% in 2004 compared to 14.5% in 2003. The overall improvement in operating profit margins for 2004 was driven primarily by additional leverage from sales growth, on going cost reductions associated with Danaher Business System initiatives and reductions in manufacturing costs through low cost region sourcing and production initiatives implemented during 2004 and 2003. Margin improvements were partially offset by lower margins associated with the start up stage of new business initiatives with certain OEMs in the Companys motion business. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Product Identification. For 2004, product identification revenues grew 38.5% compared to 2003, with acquisitions providing 29.0% growth, favorable currency impacts of approximately 3.5%, and sales from existing operations providing 6.0% growth. Growth in sales from existing businesses was broad based across the product portfolio. The growth was driven by strong equipment sales, primarily continuous ink jet printer sales in China and North America, but increasingly in the laser, thermal transfer overprint and binary array product offerings. Year over year growth rates for the second half of 2004 were somewhat lower compared with the growth rates in the first half of 2004 reflecting the normalization of revenues associated with the 2003 Willett acquisition as well as continued integration activities related to recent acquisitions. The reading and scanning business acquired in late 2003 also experienced growth, primarily from systems installation projects with the United States Postal Service. Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses grew 20% in 2004 compared to 2003, as sales from existing businesses contributed 13.0% to the overall reported growth, acquisitions provided growth of 3.5% and favorable currency translation effects provided 3.5% growth. The growth in sales from existing businesses was broad based, both geographically and across the markets served. The North American market for direct drive products, and the worldwide semiconductor and flat panel display markets demonstrated particular strength during 2004 and contributed significantly to the businesses overall growth. The business experienced a significant increase in sales associated with electric vehicle projects won in prior periods and believes it captured market share in 2004 as many motion control applications have shifted to the use of AC motor technology solutions. The Companys linear actuator product businesses continued to grow in 2004, primarily resulting from strong market growth for ball screw and gearbox product offerings in both North America and Europe. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate showed 16% sales growth in 2004, primarily from high single digit growth from existing businesses, largely attributable to the Companys sensors & controls and aerospace & defense businesses, and to a lesser extent due to the impact of acquisitions in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses. TOOLS & COMPONENTS The Tools & Components segment is one of the largest domestic producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include tool boxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and precision fasteners and miniature components. Tools & Components Selected Financial Data For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 1,294.5 $ 1,306.3 $ 1,197.2 Operating profit 199.3 198.3 173.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 15.4 % 15.2 % 14.5 % 26 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Existing businesses 4.0 % 9.5 % Divestiture (5.0 )% (0.5 )% Impact of foreign currency 0.0 % 0.0 % Total (1.0 )% 9.0 % 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 Sales in the Tools & Components segment decreased 1.0% in 2005 compared to 2004. The 2005 period sales were negatively impacted by 5.0% on a year over year basis due to the sale of a small business in late 2004 for which previously reported sales have not been restated. Sales from existing businesses contributed approximately 4.0% growth for the segment in 2005, including approximately 2.0% growth due to price increases that the Company implemented as a result of cost increases in steel and other commodities. There were no acquisitions in this segment during 2004 or 2005 and currency impacts on sales were negligible in both periods. Mechanics Hand Tools sales, representing approximately two thirds of segment sales in 2005, grew approximately 4.0% in 2005, compared with 2004. The sales growth was driven primarily by sales growth in the groups high end mobile tool distribution business which experienced low double digit growth during the year driven by increases in both the number of distributors and their average purchase levels. Mechanics Hand Tools also experienced significant growth in 2005 in the China market. The business retail mechanics hand tools business declined at low single digit levels during 2005 compared with 2004. The integration of Sears and Kmart, a major customer of the segment, tempered the business 2005 sales growth. The Company believes the merger of Sears and Kmart may result in further reductions to Sears/Kmarts inventory levels during the first half of 2006. The segments niche businesses also experienced mid single digit growth during 2005 due primarily to strength in the truck box and engine retarder businesses. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.4% in 2005 compared to 15.2% in 2004. The improvement in operating profit margins for 2005 primarily relates to the pricing initiatives implemented to offset a portion of the steel and other commodity cost increases experienced beginning in 2004; the impact of higher sales levels and the impact of Danaher Business System cost reduction programs implemented in 2004 and 2005; and the impact of a gain recorded on the sale of real estate totaling $5.3 million ($3.9 million after taxes) during the first quarter of 2005. These improvements more than offset the incremental costs associated with closing one of the segments manufacturing facilities. The Company incurred approximately $11 million in costs associated with this plant closure in 2005. This plant closure provided minimal benefit to operating margins in 2005 but is expected to contribute to earnings in 2006. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of the segments businesses and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives are all expected to further improve segment operating margins in future periods. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Sales in the Tools & Components segment grew 9.0% in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales volumes from existing businesses contributed 9.5% and were offset slightly by the impact of a small divestiture during 2004. Price increases, which are included as a component of sales from existing businesses, contributed less than 1% to reported revenue. There were no acquisitions in this segment during either 2004 or 2003 and currency impacts on revenues were negligible in both periods. Sales in the Mechanics Hand Tools business grew approximately 8.5% for the year, driven primarily by increases in sales from the groups retail hand tool product lines, high end mobile distribution business and industrial distribution businesses. The Companys Matco business grew at low double digit rates for 2004 which the Company believes outpaced the overall market growth. The Companys engine retarder and chuck businesses also experienced low double digit growth rates. The other niche businesses within the segment also experienced mid to high single digit growth rates during 2004. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.2% in 2004 compared to 14.5% in 2003. This improvement was driven by leverage on increased sales volume and the impact of cost reduction programs implemented in 2003 and 2004 offset partially by increases in price and surcharges related to steel purchases incurred in the third quarter. Price increases were implemented to recover a portion of the increase in raw material costs. The Company commenced a plant closing in the fourth quarter of 2004 which reduced overall operating profit for 2004 by about $5 million. 27 Table of Contents GROSS PROFIT For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 Cost of sales 4,539.7 3,996.6 3,154.8 Gross profit $ 3,445.0 $ 2,892.7 $ 2,139.1 Gross profit margin 43.1 % 42.0 % 40.4 % Gross profit margins for 2005 improved 110 basis points to 43.1% from 42.0% in 2004. This improvement resulted primarily from generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired, leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our DBS processes and low cost region initiatives, and cost reductions in recently acquired business units. In addition, selected increases in selling prices and recent reductions of commodity costs also contributed to gross profit expansion. Partly offsetting these improvements are the costs associated with closing a manufacturing facility in the Tools & Components segment referred to above. Gross profit could be negatively impacted in future periods by higher raw material costs and supply constraints resulting from the improving overall economy or any significant slowdown in the economy. Gross profit margins for 2004 improved 160 basis points to 42.0% compared to 40.4% in 2003. This improvement resulted primarily from leverage on increased sales volume. In addition, gross profit margins benefited from generally higher gross profit margins in businesses acquired (principally Radiometer) and the ongoing cost improvements in existing business units driven by the Companys DBS processes and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives. Increases in cost and surcharges related to steel purchases partially offset these improvements. OPERATING EXPENSES For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 7,984.7 $ 6,889.3 $ 5,293.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,175.8 1,795.7 1,316.4 SG&A as a % of sales 27.2 % 26.1 % 24.9 % The year over year increases in selling, general and administrative expenses are due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses (principally KaVo and Leica Microsystems in 2005 and Radiometer and KaVo in 2004) and their higher relative operating expense structures, additional spending to fund growth opportunities throughout the Company, and the increased proportion of sales derived from our international operations which generally have higher operating expense structures compared to the Company as a whole. In addition, selling, general and administrative expenses for 2005 reflect a charge for settlement of pre acquisition litigation (refer to Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). GAIN ON PENSION PLAN CURTAILMENT The Company recorded a curtailment gain in 2003 as a result of freezing substantially all associates ongoing participation in its Cash Balance Plan effective December 31, 2003. The gain totaled $22.5 million ($14.6 million after tax, or $0.05 per share) and represented the unrecognized benefits associated with prior plan amendments that were being amortized into income over the remaining service period of the participating associates prior to freezing the plan. The Company will continue recording pension expense related to this plan, primarily representing interest costs on the accumulated benefit obligation and amortization of actuarial losses accumulated in the plan prior to the curtailment. 28 Table of Contents INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense for 2005 was lower than the prior year by approximately $10.1 million. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower debt levels in 2005 as a result of the repayment of the Companys 6.25% Eurobond notes and to a lesser extent, lower borrowing rates on new borrowings during the period. Interest expense of $55 million in 2004 was approximately $4 million lower than the corresponding 2003 period. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the cessation of amortization of deferred financing costs related to the Companys LYONS, offset slightly by the unfavorable impact of the Euro/US Dollar exchange rate on interest expense related to the Companys $406.8 million of 6.25% Eurobond notes (which were subsequently repaid in the third quarter of 2005). Interest income of $14.7 million, $7.6 million and $10.1 million was recognized in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During the second quarter of 2005, the Company collected $4.6 million of interest on a note receivable which had not previously been recorded due to collection risk (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, higher overall interest rates in 2005 compared to 2004 increased interest income from prior year levels. Average invested cash balances decreased in 2004 compared with the 2003 levels due to deploying these cash balances to complete several acquisitions. The decline in interest income as a result of these lower invested cash balances was partially offset by the Company maintaining a higher proportion of available cash in international markets which had higher overall interest rates and higher short term rates in 2004. INCOME TAXES The Companys effective tax rate for 2005 of 27.3% was 2.2 percentage points lower than the 2004 effective rate, mainly due to the effect of a higher proportion of foreign earnings in 2005 compared to 2004. The Company also resolved examinations of certain previously filed U.S. and international tax returns and provided additional reserves for other matters arising during the third fiscal quarter of 2005. Resolution of these matters resulted in a small benefit from the reversal of previously provided tax reserves. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2006 is expected to be approximately 26.5%. The 2004 effective tax rate of 29.5% was 3.1 percentage points lower than the 2003 effective rate, mainly due to the effect of a higher proportion of non U.S. earnings in 2004 compared to 2003 as well as the impact of changes made to the Companys international tax structure, primarily related to the acquisition and integration of Radiometer and KaVo during 2004. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, material audit assessments and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate in 2005, 2004 and 2003 differed from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. United States income taxes have not been provided on earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2005, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States was approximately $2.1 billion. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) provided the Company with an opportunity to repatriate up to $500 million of foreign earnings during 2005 at an effective US tax rate of 5.25%. The Company did not repatriate any foreign earnings under the provisions of the Act. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for potential tax contingencies. Based on these reviews and the result of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Companys estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Companys earnings and or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates. INFLATION Other than increases in commodity pricing noted above, the effect of inflation on the Companys operations has been minimal in 2005, 2004, and 2003. 29 Table of Contents FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2005, the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt would decrease by approximately $4 million. This methodology has certain limitations, and these hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Companys results of operations or financial condition under current accounting principles. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6% notes due 2008 having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Other than the above noted swap arrangements, there were no material derivative financial instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. Additionally, the Company does not have significant commodity contracts or other derivatives. Exchange Rate Risk The Company has a number of manufacturing sites throughout the world and sells its products globally. As a result, it is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. Dollar and against the currencies of other countries in which it manufactures and sells products and services. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. Dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements relative to its non U.S. operations without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. The Companys previously outstanding Eurobond notes, which were repaid in the third quarter of 2005, provided a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, interest rate swap agreements and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company anticipates, however, that counter parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under these instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments and its interest rate swap agreements with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support these financial instruments, it does periodically evaluate the credit standing of the counter party financial institutions. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate. 30 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity For the years ended, December 31, ($ in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Total operating cash flows $ 1,203.8 $ 1,033.2 $ 861.5 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (121.2 ) (115.9 ) (80.3 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (885.1 ) (1,591.7 ) (312.3 ) Other sources 40.9 74.0 24.5 Net cash used in investing activities (965.4 ) (1,633.6 ) (368.1 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 59.9 45.9 50.5 Repayments of borrowings, net (292.2 ) (66.3 ) (145.5 ) Dividends paid (21.6 ) (17.7 ) (15.3 ) Purchase of treasury stock (257.7 ) Net cash used in financing activities (511.6 ) (38.1 ) (110.3 ) Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity was $1,203.8 million for 2005, an increase of $170.6 million, or approximately 16.5% as compared to 2004. Earnings growth contributed $151.8 million to the increase in operating cash flow in 2005 compared to 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company held $315.6 million of cash and cash equivalents. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash in all periods presented. The Company acquired 13 companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $885.1 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In the second quarter of 2005, the Companys Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time. During 2005 the Company repurchased approximately 5 million shares of Company common stock at an aggregate cost of $257.7 million, funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. The Companys Eurobond notes with a stated amount of 300 million were issued in July 2000 and bore interest at 6.25% per annum. Upon maturity in July 2005, the Company repaid these notes from available cash in the amount of $362 million. The Company currently has a total of $1 billion available for borrowing under two $500 million lines of credit which mature in June and July, 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 there were no amounts outstanding under these credit facilities. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity, was approximately $1.2 billion for 2005, an increase of $171 million, or approximately 16.5% as compared to 2004. Earnings growth contributed $152 million to the increase in operating cash flow in the 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and amortization accounted for $21 million of the improvement in cash flow 31 Table of Contents on a year over year basis. Operating working capital, which the company defines as accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable, also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Cash used for accounts receivable decreased by $43 million during 2005 compared to 2004. This decrease primarily relates to significant increases in accounts receivable in 2004 as a result of an accelerating sales environment. In addition, the Company realized higher cash flow benefits from accounts payable compared to 2004, primarily as a result of the timing of vendor payments. These improvements were partially offset by cash used for inventory to support growing sales levels which used $88 million more cash in 2005 compared to 2004. Inventory turns improved on a year to year basis, driven particularly by improvements in newly acquired businesses. The timing of tax payments and changes in deferred taxes in 2005 compared to 2004 negatively impacted cash flow by $17 million for 2005 compared to 2004. In addition, timing related increases in prepaid expenses associated with the timing of payments for certain of the Companys benefit programs, including 401(k) and employee health plan contributions negatively impacted 2005 cash flow. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing duplicate facilities, severing redundant personnel and integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with each acquisition. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $965 million in 2005 compared to approximately $1.6 billion in 2004. Capital spending increased $5 million in 2005 from 2004 levels to $121 million. Capital expenditures are made primarily to support product development, for increasing capacity, replacement of equipment and improving information technology systems. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $1.6 billion in 2004 compared to $368 million of net cash used in 2003. Gross capital spending of $116 million for 2004 increased $36 million from 2003, due to capital spending relating to new acquisitions and spending related to the Companys low cost region manufacturing initiatives, new products and other growth opportunities. In 2006, the Company expects capital spending of approximately $150 million, although actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Disposals of fixed assets yielded approximately $19 million and $31 million of cash proceeds for 2005 and 2004, respectively. As discussed below, the Company completed several business acquisitions and divestitures during 2005, 2004 and 2003. All of the acquisitions during this time period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 2005 Acquisitions In the first quarter of 2005 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Linx Printing Technologies PLC, a publicly held U.K based coding and marking business, for $171 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of $2 million. Linx complements the Companys product identification businesses and had annual revenue of approximately $93 million in 2004. In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of German based Leica Microsystems AG, for an aggregate purchase price of 210 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of 12 million and the assumption and repayment at closing of 125 million outstanding Leica debt ($429 million in aggregate). The Company funded this acquisition and the payment of debt assumed using available cash and through borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit totaling $222 million, a portion of which was repaid prior to December 31, 2005. Leica complements the Companys medical technologies business and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested, as described below). In September 2005, the Company also completed the sale of Leica Microsystems semiconductor equipment business which was held for sale at the time of the acquisition. This business had historically operated at a loss. Proceeds from the sale have been reflected as a reduction in the purchase price for Leica Microsystems in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Operating losses for this business for the period from acquisition to disposition totaled approximately $1.3 million and are reflected in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. In addition to Linx and Leica Microsystems, the Company acquired 11 smaller companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $285 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as electronic test, dental, sensors and controls, aerospace and defense and motion controls. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of either the Professional Instrumentation or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregated annual sales of these 11 acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions were approximately $260 million and each of these companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. 32 Table of Contents In June 2005, the Company divested one insignificant business that was reported as a continuing operation within the Industrial Technologies segment for aggregate proceeds of $12.1 million in cash net of related transaction expenses. The Company recorded a pre tax gain of $4.6 million on the divestiture which is reported as a component of Gains in Real Estate and Other Assets, Net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Sales related to this business included in the Companys results for 2005 were $7.5 million. Net cash proceeds received on the sale are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In June 2005, the Company collected $14.6 million in full payment of a retained interest that was in the form of a $10 million note receivable and an equity interest arising from the sale of a prior business. The Company had recorded this note net of applicable allowances and had not previously recognized interest income on the note due to uncertainties associated with collection of the principal balance of the note and the related interest. As a result of the collection, the Company recorded $4.6 million of interest income related to the cumulative interest received on this note in the second quarter of 2005. In addition, the Company recorded a pre tax gain of $5.3 million related to collection of the note balance in the second quarter of 2005 which has been recorded as a component of Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Cash proceeds from the collection of the principal balance of $10 million are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 2004 Acquisitions In January 2004, the Company acquired all of the share capital of Radiometer S/A for $684 million in cash (net of $77 million in acquired cash), including transaction costs. In addition, the Company assumed $66 million of debt in connection with the acquisition. Radiometer designs, manufactures, and markets a variety of blood gas diagnostic instrumentation, primarily used in hospital applications. The Company also provides consumables and services for its instruments. Radiometer is a worldwide leader in its served markets, and had total annual sales of approximately $300 million at the time of acquisition. In May 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Kaltenbach & Voight Gmbh (KaVo) for 350 million ($412 million) in cash, including transaction costs and net of $45 million in acquired cash. KaVo, headquartered in Biberach, Germany, with 2003 revenues of approximately $450 million, is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and sale of dental equipment, including hand pieces, treatment units and diagnostic systems and laboratory equipment. In November 2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Trojan Technologies, Inc. for aggregate consideration of $185 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of $23 million in acquired cash. In addition, the Company assumed $4 million of debt in connection with the acquisition. Trojan is a leader in the ultraviolet disinfection market for drinking and wastewater applications and had annual revenues of approximately $115 million at the time of acquisition. In addition to Radiometer, KaVo and Trojan, the Company acquired ten smaller companies and product lines during 2004 for total consideration of $311 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of instrumentation products, in markets such as medical technologies, electronic test, motion, environmental, product identification, sensors and controls, and aerospace and defense. These companies were all acquired to complement existing businesses or as additions to the newly formed medical technology line of business within the Professional Instrumentation segment. The aggregate annual sales of these acquired businesses as of the respective dates of acquisition were approximately $280 million and each of these companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. In addition, the company sold a business that was part of the Tools & Components segment during 2004. This business was insignificant to reported sales and earnings. Proceeds from this sale have been included in proceeds from divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The pre tax gain on the sale of $1.5 million ($1.1 million after tax) is included in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 2003 Acquisitions The Company acquired twelve companies and product lines during 2003 for total consideration of $312 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. The Company also assumed debt with an estimated fair market value of $45 million in connection with these acquisitions. In connection with one of the 2003 acquisitions, the Company entered into an agreement to pay an additional maximum contingent consideration of up to $36.8 million in November 2008 based on future performance of the acquired business through November 2008. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as product identification, environmental and aerospace and defense. These companies were all acquired to complement existing business units of the Professional Instrumentation or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregated annual revenues of the acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions were approximately $361 million and each of these 33 Table of Contents twelve companies individually had less than $125 million in annual revenues and were purchased for a purchase price of less than $125 million. In addition, the Company sold one facility acquired in connection with a prior acquisition for approximately $11.6 million in net proceeds. No gain or loss was recognized on the sale and the proceeds have been included in proceeds from divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Recent Acquisition Developments Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of Visual Networks, Inc. for a total purchase price of $75 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of estimated cash acquired. Visual Networks will complement businesses within the electronic test business and had 2004 revenues of approximately $53 million. In January 2006, the Company commenced an all cash tender offer for all of the outstanding ordinary shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. based public company. In connection with the offer, the Company acquired an aggregate of 19.5% of First Technologys issued share capital for approximately $86 million. A competing bidder subsequently made an offer that surpassed the Companys bid, and as a result the Company has lapsed its offer for First Technology. The Company is evaluating its options, one of which may be to tender its shares into the other bidders offer. If the Company tenders into the other bidders offer and such other offer obtains regulatory approval and successfully closes at the current offer price, the Company would record a gain related to this transaction of approximately $13 million, including a break up fee of approximately $3 million, net of transaction related costs. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Financing activities used cash of $512 million during 2005 compared to $38 million used during the comparable period of 2004, primarily for the repurchase of common stock and the repayment of indebtedness. On April 21, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys 1998 Stock Option Plan and for other corporate purposes. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $257.7 million. The repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. At December 31, 2005, the Company had 5 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or existing lines of credit. Total debt was $1,042 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $1,350 million at December 31, 2004. This decrease was due primarily to repayment of $362 million of the Companys Eurobonds as required upon maturity in July 2005. This decrease was partially offset by $104 million in borrowings, net of repayments, associated with the purchase of Leica Microsystems described above and by the accretion of amounts due under the LYONs discussed below. The Companys debt financing as of December 31, 2005 was comprised primarily of $580 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs), $250 million of 6% notes due 2008 (subject to the interest rate swaps described above) and $177 million of borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. During the first quarter of 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375%. Holders of the LYONs may convert each of their LYONs into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2005, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was $48 per share which, at that date, was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. The Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period commencing after January 22, 2004 if the average market price of a LYON for a measurement period preceding such six month period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The Company has not and is not currently required to pay contingent interest under this agreement. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. The Company maintains two revolving senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $1 billion available for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under the revolving credit facilities bear interest of Eurocurrency rate plus 0.21% to 0.70%, depending on the Companys 34 Table of Contents debt rating. The credit facilities, each $500 million, have a fixed term expiring June 28, 2006 and July 23, 2006, respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under either of the Companys credit facilities at any time during 2004 or 2005. The Company expects to enter into a new credit facility in 2006. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. However, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys credit facilities. Also, a downgrade in the Companys credit rating could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude the Companys ability to consider commercial paper as a potential source of financing. The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.02 per share payable on January 27, 2006 to holders of record on December 31, 2005. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2005 were $21.6 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2005, the Company held $316 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants under the aforementioned debt instruments, including limitations on secured debt and debt levels. In addition, as of the date of this Form 10 K, the Company could issue up to $1 billion of securities under its shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. In order to meet these cash requirements, the Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds. The Company currently anticipates that any acquisitions consummated during 2006 would be funded from available cash and internally generated funds and, if necessary, through the establishment of a commercial paper program, through borrowings under its credit facilities, under uncommitted lines of credit or by accessing the capital markets. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy both short term and long term requirements. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. Most of the amounts held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient inter company transfer of funds, the Companys intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Pension and Other Post Retirement & Employee Benefit Plans Due to declines in the equity markets in 2001 and 2002, the fair value of the Companys United States pension fund assets decreased below the accumulated benefit obligation due to the participants in the plan. In addition, certain of the Companys non United States plans are under funded. As a result, in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, the Company has recorded a minimum pension liability of $175.5 million ($116.0 million net of tax benefits) cumulatively through December 31, 2005. The minimum pension liability is calculated as the difference between the actuarially determined accumulated benefit obligation and the value of the plan assets as of September 30, 2005 (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 for additional information). This adjustment results in a direct reduction of stockholders equity and does not immediately impact net earnings, but is included in other comprehensive income (loss). Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in such calculations. These assumptions include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 5.5% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2005, which represented a decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% from the rate used at December 31, 2004. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A further 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the after tax minimum pension liability $9.4 million ($6.8 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2005. For 2005, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States plan was estimated at 8.0% which reflects a 50 basis point reduction from the rate used in 2004. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The plan maintains between 60% to 70% of its assets in equity portfolios, which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities. The balance of the asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension expense for the U.S. plan for the year 35 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2005 was $8.1 million (or $5.9 million on an after tax basis), compared with $4.3 million (or $3.0 million on an after tax basis) for this plan in 2004. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by an additional 0.50%, pension expense for 2005 would have increased $2.2 million (or $1.6 million on an after tax basis). While the Company was not required to make a contribution to the plan in 2005, it made a voluntary contribution of $10 million in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2005. The Company is not statutorily required to make contributions to the plan in 2006. The Companys non U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 3.0% to 7.5% for 2005. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 1,024.9 181.4 252.6 6.4 584.5 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 16.8 2.6 5.3 6.0 2.9 Total Long Term Debt 1,041.7 184.0 257.9 12.4 587.4 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations 307.2 25.6 31.6 1.6 248.4 Operating Lease Obligations (c) 285.0 58.8 100.2 68.1 57.9 Other: Purchase Obligations (d) 5.3 5.3 Other Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (e) 2,258.2 1,301.8 158.9 119.0 678.5 Total $ 3,897.4 $ 1,575.5 $ 548.6 $ 201.1 $ 1,572.2 (a) As described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (e) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation liabilities. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon managements estimates over the terms of these agreements and are largely based upon historical experience. 36 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company has no off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period TotalAmountsCommitted Less Than One Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years ($ in millions) Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 136.2 $ 33.0 $ 55.6 $ 13.0 $ 34.6 Guarantees 36.6 25.2 1.9 0.3 9.2 Contingent Acquisition Consideration 47.2 6.0 4.4 36.8 Total $ 220.0 $ 64.2 $ 61.9 $ 50.1 $ 43.8 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. In connection with four separate past acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate over the next five years pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $47.2 million over the next five years depending on the future performance of the respective businesses. The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as environmental liabilities and tax liabilities. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Due to the Companys downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Except as described above, the Company has not entered into any off balance sheet financing arrangements as of December 31, 2005. Also, the Company does not have any unconsolidated special purpose entities as of December 31, 2005. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Notes 11 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain outstanding litigation matters. In addition, the Company is, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, allegations of patent and trademark infringement and trade secret misappropriation, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, auto, product, 37 Table of Contents general liability, and directors and officers liability insurance (and have acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes covers a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. The Company believes that the results of existing litigation matters will not have a materially adverse effect on the Companys cash flows or financial condition, even before taking into account any related insurance recoveries. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions for workers compensation, property, automobile, product and general liability costs, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Companys accrual for self insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. For more information regarding how the Company determines reserves for certain self insurance liabilities, see Critical Accounting Policies Risk Insurance. The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of such director or officer serving any other entity at the request of the Company, subject to limited exceptions. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. For a discussion of risks related to environmental, health and safety laws, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect managements more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Companys customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Companys customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its customers. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company would be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or events indicate a change in the impairment status. In calculating the fair value of the reporting units, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. 38 Table of Contents The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of the Companys reporting units as of October 1, 2005, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $130 million to approximately $2.8 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $100 million to approximately $2.4 billion for each of the Companys reporting units. Long lived assets. The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Companys long lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, long lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination, the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Companys experience in acquiring other companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired companys business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the integration plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities required to integrate the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the Companys results of operations. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. Risk Insurance. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions with respect to various business risks. The business risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and product liability. For domestic workers compensation and product liability risk, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to the retained liability. These reserves are comprised of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists for workers compensation and by outside risk insurance experts for product liability. In addition, outside risk experts recommend reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims by evaluating the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2005 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. Environmental. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that it has potential remediation liability for properties currently owned or previously sold, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its exposure for environmental related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability as such claims become known. While the Company actively pursues appropriate insurance recoveries as well as appropriate recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Companys involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the Companys estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 39 Table of Contents Contingent Liabilities. The Company is, from time to time, subject to routine litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, allegations of patent and trademark infringement and trade secret misappropriation, and litigation and administrative proceedings involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Companys settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including managements judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 40 Table of Contents 
 
