Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For a discussion of risks related to our non US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Major Customers We have no customers that accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Other Matters Our businesses maintain sufficient levels of working capital to support customer requirements. Our sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors. Available Information We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com. We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our Internet site and the 14 Table of Contents information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K. Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, and the Danaher Standards of Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and other senior financial officers) are available in the Investors Corporate Governance section of our website at www.danaher.com. Stockholders may request a free copy of these documents from: Danaher Corporation Attention: Corporate Secretary 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 12th Floor Washington, DC 20006 Certifications We have filed certifications under Rule 13a 14(a) under the Exchange Act as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, our President and CEO submitted an annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange on May 29, 2007 in accordance with the NYSE listing standards. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may face decreased demand or price reductions for our products. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive. Because of the diversity of products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors. We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new, large companies into certain markets, and as a result of increasing consolidation in particular markets. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers, establish relationships with new customers, continually develop new products and services designed to maintain our leadership position in various product categories and penetrate new markets. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures may adversely impact our profitability. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our products will become technologically obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flow, profitability and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: 15 Table of Contents correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; encourage customers to adopt new technologies; anticipate our competitors development of new products and technological innovations; obtain adequate intellectual property rights; innovate and develop new technologies and applications that are accepted by our customers; and successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. Our growth rate could decline if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline in our customers markets would likely result in diminished demand for our products and services and would adversely affect our growth rate and profitability. Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital. Conversely, any inability to consummate acquisitions at our prior rate could negatively impact our growth rate. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material. During 2007 we acquired twelve businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.6 billion (including transaction costs and net of cash acquired); during 2006 we acquired eleven businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.7 billion (including transaction costs and net of cash acquired); and during 2005 we acquired 13 businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $885 million (including transaction costs and net of cash acquired). Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability: Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it. Acquisition related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results. Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems. We may be unable to achieve cost savings anticipated in connection with the integration of an acquired business. We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or internal control deficiencies. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial position. Conversely, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions at similar rates to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or any further deterioration in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions or change the accounting treatment for acquisitions. For example, as a result of the recently issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 141 (R), Business Combinations, which will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, we will be required to expense certain acquisition related items that under current accounting rules do not impact our income statement. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. 16 Table of Contents Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. The resolution of contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have retained responsibility for some of the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, product liability claims and environmental matters, and agreed to indemnify the purchasers of these businesses for certain known and unknown contingent liabilities. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition but we can not be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property and avoid claims of infringement or misuse of third party intellectual property. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, from time to time in the usual course of business, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In the event of a successful claim against us, we could lose our rights to needed technology or be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even where we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters and acquisition related matters. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or 17 Table of Contents current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. In addition to the environmental regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by counterpart agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre market notification rescissions. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization (ISO), and failure to comply with these rules can also adversely impact our business. We also have agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and or non U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. 18 Table of Contents Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. Foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate these items into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. In addition, we are a large buyer of steel, non ferrous metals and petroleum based products, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our business and financial results will suffer. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our businesses purchase their requirements of certain of these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations, and the failure of governmental and other entities to adopt new regulations could adversely affect our growth rate. In addition, certain of our customers receive reimbursement from government insurance programs for some of the costs of the products that they purchase from us. Reductions in these reimbursement rates adversely impact the demand for our products. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition or performance of, key distributors, resellers and other channel partners could adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors, resellers and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors products, and if they favor our competitors products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse 19 Table of Contents developments in their financial condition or performance, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability. The inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of skilled officers and other employees could impede our ability to compete successfully. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may not be able to: effectively integrate acquired businesses and realize anticipated performance results from those businesses; effectively implement the Danaher Business System throughout our organization and achieve the cost savings and other benefits that the effective implementation of the Danaher Business System can achieve; and otherwise profitably grow our business. International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 2007, approximately 51% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non U.S. operations, including: interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; trade protection measures; import or export licensing requirements; unexpected changes in laws or licensing and regulatory requirements, including negative consequences from changes in tax laws; limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; differing protection of intellectual property; and terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto. Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and overall growth. Cyclical economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have adversely impacted demand for the equipment and services that we manufacture and market. Any competitive pricing pressures, slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. We have a number of domestic collective bargaining units and various non U.S. collective labor arrangements. While we generally have experienced satisfactory relations at our various locations, we are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. 20 Table of Contents Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our operating results. Our defined benefit pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates and the majority of plan assets are invested in publicly traded debt and equity securities, which are affected by market risks. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may adversely impact our future operating results. If we suffer loss to our facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man made disasters. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Our indebtedness may limit our use of our cash flow. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.7 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, we had the ability to incur an additional $0.9 billion of indebtedness in the form of commercial paper or bank loans under our outstanding facilities and programs. We may also obtain additional long term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, any further deterioration in the credit markets may impact the availability and cost of future debt borrowings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. in a facility that we lease. At December 31, 2007, we had 213 significant manufacturing and distribution locations worldwide, comprising approximately 21 million square feet, of which approximately 13 million square feet are owned and approximately 8 million square feet are leased. Of these manufacturing and distribution locations, 115 facilities are located in the United States and 98 are located outside the United States, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, Latin America and Australia. The number of manufacturing and distribution locations by business segment is: Professional Instrumentation, 67; Medical Technologies, 46; Industrial Technologies, 65; and Tools & Components, 35. We consider our facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Please refer to Note 11 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to our lease commitments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For a discussion of legal proceedings, please see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Legal Proceedings. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2007. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of our executive officers. All of our executive officers hold office at the pleasure of our Board of Directors. Name Age Position OfficerSince Steven M. Rales 56 Chairman of the Board 1984 Mitchell P. Rales 51 Chairman of the Executive Committee 1984 H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. 44 Chief Executive Officer and President 1995 Daniel L. Comas 44 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 1996 Philip W. Knisely 53 Executive Vice President 2000 James A. Lico 42 Executive Vice President 2002 Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 47 Executive Vice President 2002 James H. Ditkoff 61 Senior Vice President Finance and Tax 1991 Jonathan P. Graham 47 Senior Vice President General Counsel 2006 Robert S. Lutz 50 Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 2002 Daniel A. Raskas 41 Vice President Corporate Development 2004 Steven M. Rales has served as Chairman of the Board since January 1984. In addition, during the past five years, he has been a principal in a number of private business entities with interests in manufacturing companies and publicly traded securities. Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. Mitchell P. Rales has served as Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1990. In addition, during the past five years, he has been a principal in a number of private business entities with interests in manufacturing companies and publicly traded securities. Mr. Rales is a brother of Steven M. Rales. H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in 2001. Daniel L. Comas was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2005. He served as Vice President Corporate Development from 1996 to April 2004 and as Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Development from April 2004 to April 2005. Philip W. Knisely has served as Executive Vice President since he joined Danaher in June 2000. James A. Lico was appointed Executive Vice President in September 2005. He has served in a variety of general management positions since joining Danaher in 1996, including most recently as President of Fluke Corporation from July 2000 until September 2005, as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher Corporation from December 2002 until September 2005, and as Vice President Danaher Business Systems Office from September 2004 until September 2005. 22 Table of Contents Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. was appointed Executive Vice President in May 2006. He has served in a variety of general management positions since joining Danaher in 1990, including most recently as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher Corporation from December 2002 until May 2006. James H. Ditkoff has served as Senior Vice President Finance and Tax since December 2002. Jonathan P. Graham joined Danaher as Senior Vice President General Counsel in July 2006. Prior to joining the company, he served as Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy for General Electric Corporation, a diversified industrial company, from October 2004 until June 2006. He practiced with the law firm of Williams & Connolly LLP, a law firm based in Washington, D.C., from 1988 until September 2004, most recently as partner from 1996 to September 2004. Robert S. Lutz joined Danaher as Vice President Audit and Reporting in July 2002 and was appointed Vice President Chief Accounting Officer in March 2003. Daniel A. Raskas was appointed Vice President Corporate Development in November 2004. Prior to joining Danaher, he worked for Thayer Capital Partners, a private equity investment firm, from 1998 through October 2004, most recently as Managing Director from 2001 through October 2004. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR. As of February 15, 2008, there were approximately 3,193 holders of record of our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 2007 2006 High Low DividendsPer Share High Low DividendsPer Share First quarter $ 75.97 $ 69.11 $ .02 $ 65.42 $ 54.04 $ .02 Second quarter $ 76.09 $ 69.61 $ .03 $ 68.47 $ 60.63 $ .02 Third quarter $ 84.35 $ 72.90 $ .03 $ 69.05 $ 59.72 $ .02 Fourth quarter $ 89.22 $ 80.04 $ .03 $ 75.28 $ 66.87 $ .02 Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our earnings and other factors. Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities On April 21, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys existing stock plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes. During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $117 million. None of the repurchases were made during the fourth quarter of 2007. These repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $258 million. The 2005 repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted 23 Table of Contents lines of credit. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 3.4 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2007, holders of an aggregate of 3,202 Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) converted the LYONs into an aggregate of 46,539 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. The shares of common stock were issued solely to an existing security holder upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act 1933, as amended. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share information) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Sales $ 11,025,917 $ 9,466,056 $ 7,871,498 $ 6,776,505 $ 5,184,135 Operating Profit 1,740,709 1,500,210 1,247,575 1,042,667 834,999 (a) Earnings from continuing operations 1,213,998 1,109,206 885,609 735,013 531,912 (a) Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 155,906 (b) 12,823 12,191 10,987 4,922 (a) Net earnings 1,369,904 1,122,029 897,800 746,000 536,834 Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic $ 3.90 $ 3.60 $ 2.87 $ 2.38 $ 1.73 (a) Diluted 3.72 3.44 2.72 2.27 1.67 (a) Earnings per share from discontinued operations: Basic $ 0.50 (b) $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.02 Diluted 0.47 (b) 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.02 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 4.40 (b) $ 3.64 $ 2.91 $ 2.41 $ 1.75 (a) Diluted 4.19 (b) 3.48 2.76 2.30 1.69 (a) Dividends per share $ 0.11 $ 0.08 $ 0.07 $ 0.058 $ 0.05 Total assets $ 17,471,935 $ 12,864,151 $ 9,163,109 $ 8,493,893 $ 6,890,050 Total debt $ 3,726,244 $ 2,433,716 $ 1,041,722 $ 1,350,298 $ 1,298,883 (a) Includes a benefit of $22.5 million ($14.6 million after tax or $0.05 per diluted share) from a gain on curtailment of the Companys Cash Balance Pension Plan recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003. (b) Includes $211 million ($150 million after tax or $0.45 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Companys power quality business. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information 25 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of the Companys financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Policies The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited consolidated financial statements. OVERVIEW Danaher strives to create shareholder value through: delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for its products and services; upper quartile financial performance compared to Danahers peer companies; and upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to Danahers peer companies. To accomplish these goals, the Company uses a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (DBS), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. Within the DBS framework, the Company also pursues a number of ongoing strategic initiatives intended to improve operational performance, including global sourcing of materials and services and innovative product development. The Company also acquires businesses that it believes can help it achieve the objectives described above, and believes that many acquisition opportunities remain available within its target markets. The Company will acquire businesses when they strategically fit with existing operations or when they are of such a nature and size as to establish a new strategic line of business. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and effectively integrated can affect the Companys overall growth and operating results. The Company also continually assesses the strategic fit of its existing businesses and may divest businesses that are not deemed to strategically fit with ongoing operations or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. In 2007, approximately 51% of Danahers sales were derived outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry economic and political factors. However, Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Companys order rates are highly indicative of the Companys revenue in the short term and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. In those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures In November 2007, the Company significantly expanded its test and measurement business with the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. (Tektronix) for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. Tektronix is a leading supplier of test, measurement, and monitoring products, solutions and services for engineers in the communications, computer, consumer electronics and education industries, as well as in military/aerospace, semiconductor and a broad range of other industries 26 Table of Contents worldwide. Tektronix had annual revenues of approximately $1.1 billion in its most recently completed fiscal year, and is part of Danahers test and measurement business included in the Professional Instrumentation segment. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and the Companys November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash. Tektronix is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys test and measurement business, both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danahers existing test and measurement businesses is also expected to yield significant cost reductions. Company management and other personnel are devoting significant attention to the successful integration of the Tektronix business into Danaher. On November 7, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In addition, on December 11, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes). The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat, Inc. (ChemTreat) for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. ChemTreat is a leading provider of industrial water treatment products and services, and had annual revenues of $200 million in its most recent completed fiscal year. ChemTreat is part of the Companys environmental business included within the Professional Instrumentation segment. ChemTreat is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys water quality business both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company financed the acquisition of ChemTreat primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. Also during July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business for a cash sales price of $275 million net of transaction costs and recorded an after tax gain of $150 million ($0.45 per diluted share). Prior to the sale, this business was part of the Industrial Technologies segment. The Company has reported the power quality business as a discontinued operation in this Form 10 K in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect the power quality business as a discontinued operation. Business Performance While differences exist among the Companys businesses, the Company generally continued to see market growth during the year ended December 31, 2007. The Companys year over year growth rates reflect continued strength in global economic conditions, particularly Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent, North America. In addition, the growth reflects the continued shift of the Companys operations into higher growth sectors of the economy. Growth rates slowed somewhat from the rate experienced in 2006 partially due to difficult comparisons with sales levels in 2006 within the Companys product identification businesses and the impact of regulatory changes in the Companys engine retarder business discussed below. The Company continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in the markets and geographies served. The Companys performance will be impacted by its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and geographies it serves, including trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of market opportunities in Asia, increasing significance of technology and intellectual property in the businesses in which the Company operates and increases in raw material costs. The Company will continue to assess market needs with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner. 27 Table of Contents Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. On an overall basis, the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies in 2007 and closed the year at exchange rate levels weaker than the exchange rate levels as of the end of 2006. The impact of currency rate changes increased reported sales by approximately 3.5% during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Any further weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would benefit the Companys future results of operations. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Companys future sales and results of operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased approximately 16.5% over the comparable period of 2006. Sales from existing businesses contributed 4.5% growth. Acquisitions contributed 8.5% to the sales growth during 2007. The impact of currency translation on sales provided 3.5% growth as the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies throughout 2007. References in this report to sales from existing businesses include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect. The growth in sales from acquisitions in the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily related to acquisitions in the Companys Medical Technologies and Professional Instrumentation businesses. The acquisitions of Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. (Sybron) in May 2006 and Vision Systems Limited (Vision), at the end of 2006, both of which are part of the Medical Technologies segment, have contributed the majority of this year over year acquisition related revenue growth. Also contributing to the year over year growth are the acquisitions of ChemTreat in July 2007 and Tektronix in November 2007, both of which are included in the Professional Instrumentation segment, and the acquisitions of other smaller businesses in the Medical Technologies, Professional Instrumentation and Industrial Technologies segments. Operating profit margins from continuing operations for the Company were 15.8% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to 15.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Following are the key factors impacting the year over year comparison of operating profit margins: Operating profit margin improvements in the Companys existing businesses contributed 85 basis points of margin improvement primarily as a result of broad based operating profit margin improvements across the Companys business segments. Operating profit margins benefited from on going cost reduction initiatives including application of the Danaher Business System and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage created from sales growth compared with the prior year period. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of our segments, and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives, are both expected to positively impact operating profit margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in future periods. The dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced 2007 operating profit margins by 90 basis points, including the expensing of approximately $68.2 million of acquisition related charges for in process research and development and the fair values of acquired inventory and deferred revenues during 2007 in connection with the acquisition of Textronix. 28 Table of Contents The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Companys deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Companys effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The Company expects the tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 27%. The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Professional Instrumentation $ 3,537.9 $ 2,906.5 $ 2,600.6 Medical Technologies 2,998.0 2,220.0 1,181.5 Industrial Technologies 3,153.4 2,988.8 2,794.9 Tools & Components 1,336.6 1,350.8 1,294.5 Total $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION Businesses in the Professional Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical customers various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. The Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic businesses: environmental and test and measurement. These businesses produce and sell bench top and compact, professional electronic test tools and calibration equipment; water quality instrumentation and consumables and ultraviolet disinfection systems; industrial water treatment solutions; and retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including dispensers, payment systems, underground storage tank leak detection and vapor recovery systems. Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 3,537.9 $ 2,906.5 $ 2,600.6 Operating Profit 709.5 625.6 538.3 Depreciation and amortization 64.8 48.8 47.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.1 % 21.5 % 20.7 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.8 % 1.7 % 1.8 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 6.5 % 7.5 % Acquisitions 12.0 % 4.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % 0.5 % Total 22.0 % 12.0 % 29 Table of Contents 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 As detailed in the table above, segment sales for Professional Instrumentation increased 22.0% for 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the segments strategic lines of business. Prices accounted for approximately 1.5% sales growth and the impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margins were 20.1% in 2007 compared to 21.5% in 2006. Operating profit margin improvements of 135 basis points related to existing businesses were more than offset by the dilutive impact of lower operating profit margins of acquired businesses, which reduced segment operating profit margins by 260 basis points compared to 2006. Included in the dilutive impact on operating margins from acquired businesses is approximately $68 million (185 basis points) in charges associated with the acquisition of Tektronix, primarily related to acquired in process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue. In addition, year over year comparisons are impacted by a gain on the sale of real estate during 2006 and recovery of certain previously written off receivables during 2006 which increased that periods operating profit margins by 15 basis points. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 60% of segment sales for 2007, increased 16.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.0% growth and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth. The Companys water quality businesses experienced low double digit revenue growth for 2007 compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strength in sales of laboratory and process instrumentation products in all major geographic regions. In addition, sales of the Companys ultraviolet water treatment systems grew double digit compared to 2006. Investment in sales forces and other growth initiatives, in addition to continued penetration of the Asian wastewater market, including a significant reclamation project in Australia, contributed to the growth. Sales growth from acquisitions primarily relates to the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007. The acquisition of ChemTreat expands the scope of the water quality business in the area of industrial water treatment solutions and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities from existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum equipment business experienced low single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business point of sale payment systems and service business enjoyed robust growth in 2007, primarily in Europe. In addition, the business experienced strong demand during 2007 for its recently introduced leak detection systems in North America and China during 2007. These sales gains were offset by difficult prior year comparisons, a result of strong dispenser sales in 2006 due to extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory mandates in Mexico that did not repeat in 2007. Test and Measurement. Sales from the Companys test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 40% of segment sales for 2007, grew 31.5% compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 20.0% growth and currency translation accounted for approximately 3.5% growth. New product offerings in the thermography, power quality test and process calibration markets generated strong sales in the electrical and industrial channels in all major geographical areas during 2007. The network test business experienced mid single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Large orders from telecommunications carriers in the United States during the first three quarters of 2007 and cable test equipment sales in Europe were the primary drivers of the network test growth. Acquisition growth was primarily related to the acquisition of Tektronix in addition to several smaller acquisitions throughout the year. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 substantially increases the product line and geographic scope of the test and measurement business, particularly in Asia, and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danahers existing test and measurement business is also expected to yield significant cost reductions. 30 Table of Contents 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Professional Instrumentation segment sales increased 12% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases contributed 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the Companys strategic lines of business. Operating profit margins for the segment were 21.5% in 2006 compared to 20.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses which reduced segment operating margins by approximately 40 basis points in 2006 compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R reduced operating profit for the segment by approximately $14.7 million and contributed to a 50 basis point reduction in operating profit margins in 2006 compared to 2005. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 63% of segment sales for 2006, increased 10.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 2% growth and currency translation accounted for 0.5% growth. The Companys water quality businesses experienced mid single digit sales growth for 2006. This growth was primarily the result of strength in the business laboratory and process instrumentation products in both the North American and European markets. Sales in Asia grew over 20% in 2006 reflecting continued penetration of these markets. The business ultra analytics business reported mid single digit growth in 2006. Sales growth in North America and Europe, as well as the impact of new product introductions, drove the improvements. Lower sales in Asia reflecting in part a difficult comparable sales period in 2005 due to certain large projects not repeating in 2006, partially offset these improvements. Sales growth from acquired businesses primarily reflects the impact of three smaller acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2006. The Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum product and service business reported high single digit sales growth in 2006 compared to low single digit sales growth in 2005. This growth was driven by extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory incentives in Mexico that encouraged dispensers to be embedded with tamper proof capability. The businesses newly introduced dispensing equipment and its recently introduced point of sale equipment were favorably received which also contributed to this growth. Test and Measurement. Sales from the Companys test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 37% of segment sales for 2006, grew 14.5% compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 7.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.5% growth and currency translation had a negligible impact. Sales growth from existing businesses in 2006 continued the strong growth experienced throughout 2005. The business experienced high single digit growth in traditional industrial channels in all major geographic regions with particular strength in the Asian and Latin American markets. Demand for the businesses thermography and new power quality test products contributed significantly to this overall growth. The Companys network test business reported mid single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005. Sales growth slowed in North America and Europe in 2006 compared to 2005 since 2005 benefited from several new product launches. The network test business experienced somewhat stronger sales growth in China and Latin America in 2006 compared to 2005. MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES The Medical Technologies segment consists of businesses which offer dentists, other doctors and hospital and research professionals various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. 31 Table of Contents Medical Technologies Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 2,998.0 $ 2,220.0 $ 1,181.5 Operating Profit 393.2 261.6 138.7 Depreciation and amortization 119.7 84.3 44.2 Operating profit as a % of sales 13.1 % 11.8 % 11.7 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.0 % 3.8 % 3.7 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 8.0 % 8.5 % Acquisitions 22.0 % 78.0 % Currency exchange rates 5.0 % 1.5 % Total 35.0 % 88.0 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 As detailed in the table above, segment sales increased 35% for 2007 compared to 2006. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed 1.0% to overall sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses contributed 100 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement in 2007. Improvements in the operating profit margins of the dental consumable, acute care diagnostic and life sciences instrumentation businesses were partially offset by lower operating profit margins in the dental equipment businesses. Recently acquired businesses adversely impacted 2007 operating profit margins by 40 basis points as compared to 2006. In addition, on a comparative basis, 2007 operating margins benefited approximately 50 basis points from the adverse impact on 2006 operating margins that resulted from charges recorded associated with the fair value of acquired inventory related to the acquisition of Sybron. Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment The segments dental business experienced mid single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business experienced increased sales volumes in its restorative and orthodontia products as well as in the instrument and treatment unit product offerings across all major geographies. In addition, increased sales of both two dimensional and three dimensional imaging products contributed to the revenue growth in the European market. This growth was partially offset by a decline in instrument and treatment unit sales to Asia reflecting a weak overall Japanese market and the need to re register certain products with regulatory authorities in South Korea. Radiometers acute care diagnostics business experienced high single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Increasing sales of diagnostic instruments in Europe (particularly Russia) in 2007 contributed to this sales growth. The North American and Asia/Pacific markets also contributed to the growth, although at somewhat lower rates than those experienced in the European markets. The increase in instrument placements in 2007 is expected to result in increased consumables sales in future periods. New product introductions resulting from the business continued research and development efforts are also contributing to this growth. Leica Microsystems life science instrumentation business experienced mid teens revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Robust microscopy demand, particularly confocal microscopes, in North America and Asia were the primary growth drivers. The integration of Vision with Leica Microsystems has been completed and has generated 32 Table of Contents incremental revenue growth, the majority of which has been included as a component of acquisition growth during 2007. Visions revenue grew approximately 30% in 2007 compared to 2006 when it was a stand alone company. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Medical Technologies segment sales increased 88% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Operating profit margins for the segment were 11.8% in 2006 compared to 11.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing operations, largely as a result of margin improvements within the dental technology businesses, were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses, primarily Leica and the expensing of in process research and development in connection with the acquisition of Vision which reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 45 basis points compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R resulted in approximately $6 million of stock option compensation expense and reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 30 basis points compared to 2005. The Company also recorded a $4.5 million charge in the first quarter of 2006 for impairment of a minority interest in a medical technologies company, which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 20 basis points compared to 2005. Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment The Companys dental technology businesses experienced high single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Growth in the dental technology businesses was driven by continued strength in the instrument product lines as well as strong sales of imaging product lines in North America and Asia driven by new product introductions. The Company completed two acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2006 which further enhanced its imaging product offerings. Sybron experienced low double digit sales growth in 2006; however, all Sybron sales in 2006 are reported as a component of acquisition growth due to its May 2006 acquisition. Radiometers acute care diagnostics business experienced mid single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Radiometers sales improved in all major geographic regions with particular strength in sales of consumables in Europe resulting from broad based diagnostic instrument placements in the first half of 2006. Leicas life science instrumentation business experienced high single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Strength from the sale of stereo microscopes and specimen preparation equipment drove growth in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent North America. Leicas sales have been included as a component of sales from existing businesses since the first anniversary of the acquisition and were reported as a component of acquisition growth prior to that anniversary date. Vision has been consolidated with the segments results as of the date the Company gained control of Vision in November 2006 and its sales are also included as a component of acquisition growth for 2006. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES Businesses in the Industrial Technologies segment manufacture products and sub systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic businesses, motion and product identification, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense, and sensors & controls. These businesses produce and sell product identification equipment and consumables; motion, position, speed, temperature, and level instruments and sensing devices; liquid flow and quality measuring devices; safety devices; and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company disposed of the power quality businesses that were part of this segment and all current and prior year period results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued operations. 33 Table of Contents Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 3,153.4 $ 2,988.8 $ 2,794.9 Operating profit 532.5 467.7 409.3 Depreciation and amortization 63.2 61.1 60.4 Operating profit as a % of sales 16.9 % 15.7 % 14.6 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.2 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 1.5 % 6.0 % Acquisitions 0.5 % 1.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % 0.5 % Total 5.5 % 7.5 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Price increases contributed 1.5% of sales growth compared to 2006 which impact is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses contributed 85 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement for 2007 as compared to 2006. This margin improvement was driven in part by continued margin expansion in the motion businesses reflecting pricing and productivity initiatives as well as the impact of lower levels of lower margin United States Postal Service (USPS) sales in 2007 compared to 2006 within the product identification business. In addition, during 2007, the segment recorded a pre tax gain of $12 million upon collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit, which improved operating profit margins by 40 basis points for 2007. These positive factors were partially offset by new acquisitions, restructuring activities, spending for product development and emerging market sales force initiatives, all of which are expected to have a positive impact in 2008. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Motion Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2007, increased 2.5% over 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decrease in sales and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth in sales during 2007. There were no acquisitions in the business in 2007 or 2006. During 2007, the motion business experienced sales growth primarily in the elevator markets as a result of global conversions to more energy efficient systems and new construction demand in Asia. Demand in OEM applications in Europe also contributed year over year sales growth. These growth drivers, however, were more than offset by year over year sales declines resulting from weakness in certain technology end markets as well as declines in the miniature motors business reflecting reduced customer demand. Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in 2007. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales 34 Table of Contents from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decline while currency translation contributed 3.5% to revenue growth and acquisitions contributed 1.0% to revenue growth in 2007. The 2007 decline in sales from existing operations resulted from the business completing several large systems installation projects with the USPS during 2006 which did not repeat in 2007. Sales for the business non USPS marking products grew at a mid single digit rates during 2007 compared to 2006. Strong equipment and after market sales, particularly in China, Latin America and Europe, were the primary drivers of this growth facilitated by increased investments in the business sales force and new product launches in these regions. Focused Niche Businesses The segments niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 10% sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses, partially offset by sales declines in the Companys sensors and controls business, reflecting continued softness in the semi conductor and electronic assembly markets. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Sales growth from existing businesses was due primarily to sales growth in the motion, aerospace and defense and sensor and controls businesses. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Several small acquisitions in 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 accounted for 1% growth. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.7% in 2006 compared to 14.6% in 2005. The overall improvement in operating profit margins was driven primarily by additional leverage from sales growth, on going cost reductions associated with Danaher Business System initiatives completed during 2005 and 2006, and margin improvements in businesses acquired in prior years, which typically have higher cost structures than the Companys existing operations. Recently acquired businesses had no dilutive impact on overall operating profit margins for 2006. The improvements to operating profit margins were partially offset by the implementation of SFAS No. 123R which required the Company to record approximately $14.5 million of stock option compensation costs and reduced operating profit margins by 45 basis points in 2006 compared with 2005. Operating profit margin comparisons for 2006 compared to 2005 are also negatively impacted by 35 basis points related to gains on sale of a business and the collection of a previously reserved note receivable during 2005 and were positively impacted by 65 basis points related to a fourth quarter 2005 loss from the settlement of patent infringement litigation not repeating in 2006. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 33% of segment sales in 2006, increased by 6% over 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 5% growth; acquisitions accounted for 0.5% growth and currency translation contributed growth of 0.5%. Sales from existing businesses increased from 2005 levels due primarily to broad based growth across the standard and custom motor, drive and controls lines. This growth was somewhat offset by softness in certain technology end markets. The business also experienced continued growth in sales of its linear products during 2006. Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 27% of segment sales in 2006. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Existing businesses provided 2.5% growth. Favorable currency impacts accounted for 1% growth. Acquisitions had a negligible impact on growth for 2006. The increase in sales is due primarily to the increase in sales of laser and thermal transfer overlay equipment as well as sales of consumables and services in North America and Europe. These increases in sales were offset by the completion of several large United States Postal Service (USPS) projects in the first half of 2006 at both AccuSort and Videojet. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 11.0% sales growth in 2006 compared to 2005. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Companys sensors and controls and aerospace and defense businesses. 35 Table of Contents TOOLS & COMPONENTS The Tools & Components segment is one of the largest producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include toolboxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and custom designed fasteners and components. Tools & Components Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 1,336.6 $ 1,350.8 $ 1,294.5 Operating profit 175.6 194.1 199.3 Depreciation and amortization 20.8 21.4 22.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 13.1 % 14.4 % 15.4 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.6 % 1.6 % 1.8 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses (0.5 )% 4.5 % Product line divestiture (1.0 )% 0.0 % Currency exchange rates 0.5 % 0.0 % Total (1.0 )% 4.5 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Sales from existing businesses for 2007 reflect the impact of certain regulatory requirements that became effective at the beginning of 2007 which accelerated demand for the Companys engine retarder products in 2006 and have adversely impacted demand in 2007. Price increases partially offset the decline in sales and contributed approximately 2.5% of sales growth compared to 2006. The impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margins for the segment were 13.1% in 2007 compared to 14.4% in 2006. Costs associated with workforce reductions and adjustments to production levels to match demand in the engine retarder business decreased operating profit margins by 85 basis in 2007 compared with 2006. Lower sales volumes in the mechanics hand tool business with Sears/K Mart and increased lead costs in the wheel weight business also had a negative impact on the 2007 operating margins. In addition, operating profit margins were adversely impacted by 40 basis points as a result of expenses incurred in connection with a fire in one of the business manufacturing facilities in China and restructuring costs incurred primarily in the fourth quarter of 2007 to close one facility and reduce headcount. Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment Mechanics hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales in 2007, grew 1.0% in 2007 compared to 2006. The segments Matco business grew slightly during 2007 as the business benefited from recent product introductions and price increases which offset declines in distributor average purchase levels during 2007. The retail hand tool business experienced strength in China and in its export business to Europe, as well as certain of its retail channels. This performance, in large part, was offset by a decline in sales to Sears/K Mart, the retail hand tools business largest customer. Year over year softness in same store sales of hand tools at Sears/K Mart continues to impact adversely the business. 36 Table of Contents The segments niche businesses experienced mid single digit sales declines during 2007 as compared to 2006. The impact of the regulatory issue noted above was partially offset by improved sales performance in the segments wheel service business during 2007 driven by price increases necessary to recover increased lead costs. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Sales from existing businesses contributed substantially all of the growth for the segment in 2006, including approximately 1.5% growth due to price increases that the Company implemented largely as a result of cost increases in steel and other commodities. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.4% in 2006 compared to 15.4% in 2005. Implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006 reduced segment operating profit by approximately $6 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, negatively impacting year over year operating margins by 45 basis points. The Company also incurred costs associated with exiting a small product line during the second half of 2006 which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 30 basis points. Operating profit margins also declined during 2006 due to lower margin products accounting for a larger proportion of sales within the segment as well as due to higher overall freight costs. Finally, year over year operating margin comparisons were negatively impacted by approximately 40 basis points as a result of a $5.3 million ($3.9 million after taxes) gain on the sale of real estate in 2005. The adverse impacts on operating margins described above were offset somewhat by the impact of leverage from higher sales levels, including the pricing actions implemented in 2006, as well as the benefit of restructuring actions taken in 2005. Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment Mechanics hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales, grew 5% in 2006 compared to 2005. The sales growth was driven primarily by the groups Matco business which achieved high single digit growth during 2006 driven by increases in both the number of distributors and their average purchase levels. The retail mechanics hand tools business also grew in the second half of 2006 compared to the second half of 2005 as sell through at Sears, a major customer of the segment, improved from prior year levels. The business continued to experience growth with its other retail customers as well as expanding markets for the business products in China. The segments niche businesses experienced mid single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005 as strength in the truck box and engine retarder businesses was partially offset by weakness in the chuck business. GROSS PROFIT For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 Cost of sales 5,985.0 5,269.0 4,467.3 Gross profit 5,040.9 4,197.1 3,404.2 Gross profit margin 45.7 % 44.3 % 43.2 % The increase in gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2007 as compared to 2006 resulted from leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low cost region initiatives and generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired and increases in selling prices. Gross profit margins also improved due to lower margin sales to United States Postal Service in the product identification business comprising a smaller proportion of sales during 2007 compared to 2006. The gross margins for 2007 also benefited from the inclusion of a full year of results from higher margin Sybron business as compared to 2006 which only included seven months of Sybron results as a result of Sybron acquisition in May 2006. The improvements were partially offset by higher commodity costs incurred in 2007 for which full recovery in the form of price increases dilutes reported margins. 37 Table of Contents Gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2006 benefited from leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low cost region initiatives, generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired. Increases in selling prices to offset some of the increases in cost and surcharges related to steel and other commodity purchases also contributed to gross profit improvement. These improvements were partially offset by a change in mix to certain lower margin businesses including the Gilbarco Veeder Root business and sales to the United States Postal Service in the product identification business. In addition, the Company recorded a loss on a product development venture in the first quarter of 2006 and incurred higher initial product costs associated with the Sybron acquisition in the second quarter of 2006, which further reduced gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2006. OPERATING EXPENSES For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,713.1 2,273.2 1,777.7 Research and development expenses 601.4 440.0 374.3 SG&A as a % of sales 24.6 % 24.0 % 22.6 % R&D as a % of sales 5.5 % 4.6 % 4.8 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 60 basis points during 2007 as compared to 2006 levels. The year over year increases resulted from recently acquired businesses (principally Sybron Dental and Vision) which generally have higher operating expense structures, compared to the Companys other businesses, as well as increased investment in sales forces in emerging markets. These increases were partially offset by operating leverage from higher sales during 2007 as compared to 2006. In addition, the recovery of certain previously written off indemnity receivable balances during 2007 favorably impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were higher in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of the higher operating expense structures of businesses acquired during 2006 as well as the implementation of SFAS No. 123R at the beginning of 2006 which required the Company to record approximately $55.0 million in stock option compensation costs. Research and development expenses, consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs, as a percentage of sales, were approximately 90 basis points higher in 2007 as compared to 2006. In 2007, the Company expensed approximately $60.4 million of in process research and development related to the Tektronix acquisition as compared to approximately $6.5 million of in process research and development expensed in 2006 related to the Vision acquisition. Newly acquired companies and their higher, relative research and development cost structures also contributed to the year over year increase. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales during 2006 were consistent with the 2005 level. The Company continues to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses. INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $109.7 million in 2007 was approximately $30.3 million higher than 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher average debt levels during 2007, due to borrowings incurred to fund the 2007 acquisitions of Tektronix and ChemTreat and the 2006 acquisitions of Sybron and Vision. Interest expense for 2006 was higher than 2005 by approximately $34.9 million. The increase in interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was also due to higher debt levels during 2006 as compared to 2005, as a result of borrowings incurred to fund the acquisitions of Sybron Dental and Vision. 38 Table of Contents Interest income of $6.1 million, $8.0 million and $14.7 million was recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Average invested cash balances were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in late 2006 and throughout 2007 as well as to repurchase shares of Company common stock in 2007. In addition, lower interest rates prevailing during 2007 contributed to the decrease in interest income. Average invested cash balances decreased during 2006 compared to 2005 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in 2005 and 2006, to finance repurchases of the Companys outstanding common stock in the second half of 2005 and to repay the previously outstanding Eurobonds in July 2005. In addition, 2005 interest income reflects the collection of $4.6 million of interest on a note receivable which had not previously been recorded due to collection risk. INCOME TAXES General The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below) and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate for 2007 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2007, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States was approximately $5.4 billion. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for potential tax contingencies. Based on these reviews and the result of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Companys estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Companys earnings and or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates. Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of Interpretation No. 48, the Company recognized a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $63 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. The Companys effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 25.8%, 22.4% and 27.3%, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Companys deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Companys effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 39 Table of Contents The Companys effective tax rate from continuing operations of 22.4% for 2006 was 4.9% lower than the effective tax rate for 2005. The effective tax rate for 2006 benefited by $69 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, as a result of the reduction of valuation allowances related to foreign tax credit carryforwards that are now expected to be realized, the favorable resolution of examinations of certain previously filed returns which resulted in the reduction of previously provided tax reserves and the impact of a change in German tax law which entitles the Company to cash payments in lieu of previously held unrecognized tax credits. These positive impacts were partially mitigated by a higher effective tax rate applicable to the second quarter 2006 gain on the sale of shares of First Technology, plc (see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) which increased the overall provision by $1.5 million compared to what would have been incurred using the Companys overall effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2008 is expected to be approximately 27%. INFLATION Inflation did not significantly impact the Companys overall results of operations in either 2007 or 2006. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The fair value of fixed rate long term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt, excluding the LYONs, would decrease by approximately $74 million. The LYONs have not been included in this calculation as the value of the convertible debt is primarily derived from the LYONs conversion feature. This methodology has certain limitations, and these hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Companys results of operations or financial condition under current accounting principles. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Other than the above noted swap arrangements, there were no material derivative financial instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. Additionally, the Company does not have significant commodity contracts or other derivatives. Exchange Rate Risk Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Eurobond Notes described below, as well as the European component of the 40 Table of Contents commercial paper program, which as of December 31, 2007 had aggregate outstanding borrowings in an amount equivalent to $969 million, provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, interest rate swap agreements and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company anticipates, however, that counter parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under these instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments and its interest rate swap agreements with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support these financial instruments, it does periodically evaluate the credit standing of the counter party financial institutions. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity ($ in millions) For the Years Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 Operating cash flows from continuing operations $ 1,699.3 $ 1,530.8 $ 1,189.3 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (53.5 ) 16.5 14.5 Net cash flows from operating activities 1,645.8 1,547.3 1,203.8 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (162.1 ) (136.4 ) (119.7 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (3,576.6 ) (2,656.1 ) (885.1 ) Cash paid for investment in acquisition target and other marketable securities (23.2 ) (84.1 ) Proceeds from sale of investment and divestitures 301.3 98.5 22.1 Other sources 15.5 10.0 18.8 Investing cash flows from continued operations (3,445.1 ) (2,768.1 ) (963.9 ) Investing cash flows from discontinued operations (0.7 ) (1.3 ) (1.5 ) Net cash used in investing activities (3,445.8 ) (2,769.4 ) (965.4 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 733.0 98.4 59.9 Borrowings, net of repayments 1,131.0 1,145.0 (292.2 ) Purchase of treasury stock (117.5 ) (257.7 ) Payment of dividends (34.3 ) (24.6 ) (21.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,712.2 1,218.8 (511.6 ) Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $168.5 million, or approximately 11.0% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $104.8 million to the increase in operating cash flow from continuing operations in 2007 compared to 2006, and non cash stock compensation expense and increases in depreciation and amortization also positively impacted cash flow. Operating working capital, which the Company defines as trade accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable, was a net source of cash flow in 2007 despite higher sales levels as overall operating 41 Table of Contents working capital turns improved from the levels experienced during 2006. Operating working capital contributed $69 million to operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to $31 million contributed to operating cash flow during 2006. As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash in all periods presented. The Company acquired 12 companies and product lines during 2007 and completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned as of December 31, 2006, for total consideration of $3.6 billion in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 for total consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired, and the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007 for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs, constituted the largest acquisitions during the period. During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the net proceeds from the Companys November 2007 common stock offering, and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the net proceeds from the Companys December 2007 offering of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018. The Company financed the ChemTreat acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, pension funding decisions and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, was approximately $1.7 billion for 2007, an increase of $169 million, or approximately 11% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $105 million to the increase in operating cash flow in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating cash flows during 2007 benefited from increases in non cash depreciation and amortization charges of approximately $53 million compared to 2006. The increase in depreciation and amortization is primarily related to recent acquisitions. Also benefiting operating cash flows during 2007 is $68 million of non cash acquisition related charges incurred primarily related to acquired in process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Tektronix. Because this expense adversely impacts net earnings but does not require the use of cash, it positively impacts the comparison of operating cash flow as a percentage of net earnings. Operating working capital contributed approximately $38 million to the increase in operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to 2006. The increase in operating working capital is primarily a result of improvements in the Companys inventory turnover and days payables outstanding in 2007. These improvements were somewhat offset by an increase in income tax payments related to continuing operations of approximately $74 million during 2007 as compared to 2006. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $3.4 billion during 2007 compared to $2.8 billion of net cash used in the comparable period of 2006. Gross capital spending of $162 million for 2007 increased $26 million from $136 million during 2006, primarily due to capital spending relating to new acquisitions and increased spending related to investments in the Companys low cost region sourcing initiatives, new products and other growth opportunities. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving 42 Table of Contents information technology systems. In 2008, the Company expects capital spending to exceed $200 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $2.8 billion in 2006 compared to approximately $965 million in 2005. Gross capital spending increased $17 million in 2006 from 2005 levels to $138 million. As discussed below, the Company completed several business acquisitions and divestitures during 2007, 2006 and 2005. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 2007 Acquisitions and Divestiture In November 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the Companys November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the proceeds from the Companys December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes (described below). In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. The Company financed the acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. In addition, the Company acquired ten other companies or product lines during 2007 for consideration of approximately $273 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. Each company acquired is a manufacturer and assembler of instrumentation products, in market segments such as test and measurement, dental technologies, product identification, sensors and controls and environmental instruments. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these ten acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $123 million. In addition to the ten acquisitions noted above, as discussed below, during the first quarter of 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned by the Company as of December 31, 2006 for cash consideration of approximately $96 million. In July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. This business, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment and designs and manufactures power quality and reliability products and services, had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $130 million in 2006. The Company used the proceeds from this sale for general corporate purposes, including debt reduction and acquisitions. 2006 Acquisitions In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sybron for total cash consideration of approximately $2 billion, including transaction costs and net of $94 million of cash acquired, and assumed approximately $182 million of debt. Sybron is a leading manufacturer of a broad range of products for the dental professional and had revenues of approximately $650 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. Substantially all of the assumed debt was repaid or refinanced prior to December 31, 2006. Danaher financed the acquisition of shares and the refinancing of the assumed debt primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. 43 Table of Contents In addition, in the last quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Vision for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $525 million, including transaction costs and net of $113 million of cash acquired and assumed $1.5 million of debt. Of this purchase price, $96 million was paid during 2007 to acquire the remaining shares of Vision that the Company did not own as of December 31, 2006 and for transaction costs. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of available cash and the issuance of commercial paper. Vision, based in Australia, manufactures and markets automated instruments, antibodies and biochemical reagents used for biopsy based detection of cancer and infectious diseases, and had revenues of $86 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. The pairing of Vision with the Companys existing life science instrumentation business, Leica, has significantly broadened the Companys product offerings in the anatomical pathology market and has expanded the sales and growth opportunities for both the Leica and Vision businesses. The Company believes that the pairing of Leica and Vision has also created a broader base for the potential acquisition of complementary businesses in the life sciences industry. Total consideration for the other nine businesses acquired during 2006 was approximately $213 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental instrumentation, medical equipment or industrial products, in the market segments of test and measurement, acute care diagnostics, water quality, product identification and sensors and controls. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these nine acquired businesses, at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $140 million. In the first half of 2006, the Company purchased and subsequently sold shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. based public company, in connection with the Companys unsuccessful bid to acquire First Technology. First Technology also paid the Company a break up fee of approximately $3 million. During the second quarter of 2006 the Company recorded a pre tax gain of approximately $14 million ($8.9 million after tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share) in connection with these matters, net of related transaction costs, which is included in other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings. Disposals of fixed assets and land yielded approximately $10 million of cash proceeds during 2006 due to the sale of three parcels of real estate and miscellaneous equipment. 2005 Acquisitions In the first quarter of 2005 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Linx Printing Technologies PLC, a publicly held U.K based coding and marking business, for $171 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of $2 million. Linx complements the Companys product identification businesses and had annual revenue of approximately $93 million in 2004. In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of German based Leica Microsystems AG, for an aggregate purchase price of 210 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of 12 million and the assumption and repayment at closing of 125 million of outstanding Leica debt ($429 million in aggregate as of the date of the acquisition). The Company funded this acquisition and the repayment of debt assumed using available cash and through borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit totaling $222 million, which have subsequently been repaid. Leica complements the Companys medical technologies business and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested, as described below). In September 2005, the Company also completed the sale of Leicas semiconductor equipment business which was held for sale at the time of the acquisition. In addition to Linx and Leica, the Company acquired eleven smaller companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $285 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as medical technologies, test and measurement, sensors and controls, environmental, product identification, aerospace and defense and motion. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these 44 Table of Contents eleven acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $260 million. In June 2005, the Company divested one insignificant business that was reported as a continuing operation within the Industrial Technologies segment for aggregate proceeds of $12.1 million in cash net of related transaction expenses. Sales related to this business included in the Companys results for 2005 were $7.5 million. Net cash proceeds received on the sale are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In June 2005, the Company collected $14.6 million in full payment of a retained interest that was in the form of a $10 million note receivable and an equity interest arising from the sale of a prior business. The Company had recorded this note net of applicable allowances and had not previously recognized interest income on the note due to uncertainties associated with collection of the principal balance of the note and the related interest. Cash proceeds from the collection of the principal balance of $10 million are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Disposals of fixed assets yielded approximately $19 million of cash proceeds during 2005, primarily related to a sale of a building. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Overview Financing cash flows consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $1.7 billion during 2007 compared to $1.2 billion of cash provided during 2006. The increase in cash generated from financing activities was primarily due to: commercial paper borrowings used to finance the acquisition of ChemTreat and a portion of the acquisition of Tektronix; and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering and the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes that were used to finance the acquisition of Tektronix, in each case net of debt repayments, amounts paid for repurchases of common stock and dividends paid during 2007. Total debt was $3,726 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $2,434 million at December 31, 2006. The Companys debt financing as of December 31, 2007 consisted primarily of: $240 (164 million) million of outstanding Euro denominated commercial paper; $1,311 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 (subject to the interest rate swaps described below); $730 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (Eurobond Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018; $606 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $89 million of other borrowings. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes and the 2018 Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of 2018 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. The Companys outstanding indentures and comparable instruments contain customary covenants including for example limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 45 Table of Contents Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facilities The Company satisfies its short term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper. Under the Companys U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the credit facilities described below provide credit support for the program, the $2.5 billion of availability under the credit facilities has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $2.5 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions. The Company has classified $1.5 billion of the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility (described below), to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. The remaining commercial paper borrowings are classified as a current obligation. During 2007, the Company utilized its commercial paper program, in part, to fund the acquisitions of ChemTreat and Tektronix. Operating cash flow and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering, in the case of Tektronix, were also utilized to fund the acquisition. The proceeds from the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes were subsequently utilized to reduce outstanding borrowings under the program. As of December 31, 2007, $1,551 million was outstanding under the Companys global commercial paper program, including $1,311 million outstanding under the U.S. dollar commercial paper program with a weighted average interest rate of 4.6% and an average maturity of 12 days and $240 million outstanding under the Euro denominated commercial paper program (164 million) with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% and an average maturity of 32 days. Credit support for part of the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.5 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) which expires on April 25, 2012. The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Companys option, (1) a LIBOR based formula is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, or (2) a formula based on Bank of Americas prime rate or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. In addition, in connection with the financing of the Tektronix acquisition in November 2007, the Company entered into a $1.9 billion unsecured revolving bridge loan facility (the Bridge Facility) which expires on November 11, 2008. The Bridge Facility also provides credit support for the commercial paper program and can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Companys option, either (1) a LIBOR based formula that is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, or (2) a formula based on the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points. The Bridge Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and is required to be prepaid with the net cash proceeds of certain equity or debt issuances by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Together with the Companys pre existing $1.5 billion credit facility, the Bridge Facility increased the Companys aggregate credit facilities to $3.4 billion. In December 2007, the amount of the Bridge Facility was reduced by $0.9 billion leaving the amount of the Bridge Facility at $1.0 billion and the aggregate amount of the Companys credit facilities at $2.5 billion, in each case as of December 31, 2007. There were no borrowings under either the Credit Facility or the Bridge Facility during 2007. Other Long Term Indebtedness In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points. 46 Table of Contents On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each of their LYONs into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2007, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% percent of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1.2 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2007. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. The $250 million of 6.1% notes due 2008 mature October 15, 2008. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the notes having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective net interest rate on $100 million of the Notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. Rates are reset twice per year. At December 31, 2007, the net interest rate on $100 million of the notes was 4.43% after giving effect to the interest rate swap agreement. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 (Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended), the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Shelf Registration Statement and Common Stock Offering The Company has a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. In November 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share off the shelf registration statement. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In December 2007, the Company also issued the 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 off the shelf registration statement. Stock Repurchase Program On April 21, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no 47 Table of Contents expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans and for other corporate purposes. During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $117 million. These repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $258 million. The 2005 repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 3.4 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company increased its regular, quarterly dividend to $0.03 per share during the second quarter of 2007, and declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.03 per share payable on January 25, 2008 to holders of record on December 28, 2007. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2007 were $34.3 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements and may borrow under existing commercial paper programs or credit facilities or access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy both short term and long term requirements. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intra company financing is used to provide working capital to the Companys operations. Most of the cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted or prohibited by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intra company transfer of funds, the Companys intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $556 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. 48 Table of Contents Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 3,695.5 $ 329.5 $ 6.9 $ 1,505.8 $ 1,853.3 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 30.8 1.0 3.5 3.0 23.3 Total Long Term Debt 3,726.3 330.5 10.4 1,508.8 1,876.6 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations 604.9 69.1 130.8 100.7 304.3 Operating Lease Obligations (c) 368.1 100.4 143.5 65.2 59.0 Other: Purchase Obligations (d) 417.0 407.4 5.7 3.9 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (e) 1,634.6 312.3 243.6 1,078.7 Total $ 6,750.9 $ 907.4 $ 602.7 $ 1,922.2 $ 3,318.6 (a) As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (e) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and are largely based upon historical experience. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period Total AmountsCommitted Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 208.9 $ 48.0 $ 91.3 $ 45.9 $ 23.7 Guarantees 60.6 35.7 4.8 1.2 18.9 Contingent Acquisition Consideration 43.8 1.0 39.8 3.0 Total $ 313.3 $ 84.7 $ 135.9 $ 50.1 $ 42.6 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and financing counterparties and governmental entities. In connection with three past acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company enters into these types of arrangements to 49 Table of Contents help bridge differences of opinion that the Company and the sellers may have over the appropriate value of the acquired business. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate over the next three years pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $43.8 million over the next three years depending on the performance of the respective businesses during the specified performance period. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Due to the Companys downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Except as described above, as of December 31, 2007 the Company has not entered into any off balance sheet financing arrangements and has no unconsolidated special purpose entities. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain outstanding litigation matters. In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, automobile, aviation, crime, fiduciary, product, general liability, and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions under most of its lines of insurance, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Companys accrual for self insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. 50 Table of Contents For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Companys customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Companys customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its customers. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or events indicate a change in the impairment status. In calculating the fair value of the reporting units, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of 2007, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value for each of the Companys reporting units as of September 30, 2007, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $11 million to approximately $2.3 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This 51 Table of Contents hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from a short fall of approximately $10 million to an excess of approximately $2.1 billion for each of the Companys reporting units. The reporting unit that resulted in a short fall of fair value as compared to carrying value based on a 10% hypothetical change in fair value had $188 million of recorded goodwill at the date of the impairment analysis. Long lived assets. The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Companys long lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, long lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination, the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Companys experience in acquiring other companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired companys business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the integration plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities required to integrate the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the net earnings. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. Risk Insurance. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions with respect to various business risks. The business risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and general liability (which includes product liability). For domestic workers compensation and general liability risk, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ("stop loss" insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists for workers compensation and by outside risk insurance experts for product liability. In addition, outside risk experts recommend reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims by evaluating the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2007 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the risk insurance reserves established are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Environmental. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its exposure for environmental related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability as such claims 52 Table of Contents become known. While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Companys involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the Companys estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. If the environmental reserves established by the Company are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Contingent Liabilities. The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Companys settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including managements judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Share Based Compensation: Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options RSUs and restricted stock, based on the fair market value of the award as of the grant date. SFAS No. 123R supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). The Company has adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method of adoption which requires the Company to record compensation cost related to unvested stock awards as of December 31, 2005 by recognizing the unamortized grant date fair value of these awards over the remaining service periods of those awards with no change in historical reported earnings. Awards granted after December 31, 2005 are valued at fair value in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the Company recognizes equity based compensation expense net of an estimated forfeiture rate and recognizes compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award. Prior to 2006, the Company accounted for stock based compensation in accordance with APB 25 using the intrinsic value method, which did not require that compensation cost be recognized for the Companys stock options provided the option exercise price was established at 100% of the common stock fair market value on the date of grant. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share based payment awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based payment awards represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, 53 Table of Contents the equity based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are provided health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company accounts for its pension and postretirement plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions; SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions; and SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106 require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans is computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations. These include assumptions the Company makes relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions used by the Company. The assumptions used in the actuarial valuation include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 6.0% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2007, which represents an increase of 0.25% in the discount rate from December 31, 2006. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the US and non US net obligation by $62 million ($40 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2007. For 2007, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States plan was estimated at 8.0% which is the same as the rate used in 2006. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan invests between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities. The balance of the asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension expense for the U.S. plan for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $13 million (or $8 million on an after tax basis), compared with $17 million (or $11 million on an after tax basis) for this plan in 2006. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2007 would have increased $3.0 million (or $2.0 million on an after tax basis). The Company made no contributions to the U.S. plan in 2007 and is not statutorily required to make contributions to the plan in 2008. The Companys non U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 0.75% to 7.5% for 2007 and ranged from 2.5% to 6.5% for 2006. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective in the year ended December 31, 2006. For a summary of the material provisions of SFAS No. 158, see New Accounting Standards. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006 decreased the Companys minimum pension liability by $13.0 million ($9.1 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over funded positions in certain of the Companys non US pension plans. The Company also recorded other comprehensive income of $10 million ($6.5 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Companys U.S. based retiree benefit program. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $120 million ($81 million, net of tax benefits) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Companys pension plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, approximately $5.7 million ($3.9 million, net of tax) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Companys postretirement plans. 54 Table of Contents The U.S. Pension Protection Act of 2006 was enacted August 17, 2006. While the Act will have some effect on specific plan provisions in the Companys retirement program, its primary effect will be to change the minimum funding requirements for plan years beginning in 2009. Based on initial projections, the Act is expected to slightly increase the amount of our required contributions in 2009. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R) and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 160 clarifies the classification of noncontrolling interests in the financial statements and the accounting for and reporting of transactions between the reporting entity and holders of such noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Management is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure accounts and loans receivable, available for sale and held to maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. Other eligible items include firm commitments for financial instruments that otherwise would not be recognized at inception and non cash warranty obligations where a warrantor is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, such as debt issuance costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument by instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). This statement requires a company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plans over funded status or a liability for a plans under funded status (b) measure a plans assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employers fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income). The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements were effective and adopted by the Company as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employers fiscal yearend statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard reduced the amount of pension and other post retirement liabilities recorded by 55 Table of Contents approximately $23 million as of December 31, 2006 due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over funded positions in certain of the Companys non US pension plans and due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Companys U.S. based retiree benefit program. The Company expects to change its pension plan measurement date to December 31 effective in 2008. See Pension and Other Post Retirement & Employee Benefit Plans above and Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, to clarify certain aspects of accounting for uncertain tax positions, including issues related to the recognition and measurement of those tax positions. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, as required. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease of $63 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R), which requires the company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151, "Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." SFAS No. 151 amends Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 was effective in the Companys first quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 56 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of the Companys financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Policies The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited consolidated financial statements. OVERVIEW Danaher strives to create shareholder value through: delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for its products and services; upper quartile financial performance compared to Danahers peer companies; and upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to Danahers peer companies. To accomplish these goals, the Company uses a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (DBS), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. Within the DBS framework, the Company also pursues a number of ongoing strategic initiatives intended to improve operational performance, including global sourcing of materials and services and innovative product development. The Company also acquires businesses that it believes can help it achieve the objectives described above, and believes that many acquisition opportunities remain available within its target markets. The Company will acquire businesses when they strategically fit with existing operations or when they are of such a nature and size as to establish a new strategic line of business. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and effectively integrated can affect the Companys overall growth and operating results. The Company also continually assesses the strategic fit of its existing businesses and may divest businesses that are not deemed to strategically fit with ongoing operations or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. In 2007, approximately 51% of Danahers sales were derived outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry economic and political factors. However, Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Companys order rates are highly indicative of the Companys revenue in the short term and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. In those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures In November 2007, the Company significantly expanded its test and measurement business with the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. (Tektronix) for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. Tektronix is a leading supplier of test, measurement, and monitoring products, solutions and services for engineers in the communications, computer, consumer electronics and education industries, as well as in military/aerospace, semiconductor and a broad range of other industries 26 Table of Contents worldwide. Tektronix had annual revenues of approximately $1.1 billion in its most recently completed fiscal year, and is part of Danahers test and measurement business included in the Professional Instrumentation segment. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and the Companys November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash. Tektronix is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys test and measurement business, both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danahers existing test and measurement businesses is also expected to yield significant cost reductions. Company management and other personnel are devoting significant attention to the successful integration of the Tektronix business into Danaher. On November 7, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In addition, on December 11, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes). The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat, Inc. (ChemTreat) for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. ChemTreat is a leading provider of industrial water treatment products and services, and had annual revenues of $200 million in its most recent completed fiscal year. ChemTreat is part of the Companys environmental business included within the Professional Instrumentation segment. ChemTreat is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys water quality business both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company financed the acquisition of ChemTreat primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. Also during July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business for a cash sales price of $275 million net of transaction costs and recorded an after tax gain of $150 million ($0.45 per diluted share). Prior to the sale, this business was part of the Industrial Technologies segment. The Company has reported the power quality business as a discontinued operation in this Form 10 K in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect the power quality business as a discontinued operation. Business Performance While differences exist among the Companys businesses, the Company generally continued to see market growth during the year ended December 31, 2007. The Companys year over year growth rates reflect continued strength in global economic conditions, particularly Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent, North America. In addition, the growth reflects the continued shift of the Companys operations into higher growth sectors of the economy. Growth rates slowed somewhat from the rate experienced in 2006 partially due to difficult comparisons with sales levels in 2006 within the Companys product identification businesses and the impact of regulatory changes in the Companys engine retarder business discussed below. The Company continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in the markets and geographies served. The Companys performance will be impacted by its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and geographies it serves, including trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of market opportunities in Asia, increasing significance of technology and intellectual property in the businesses in which the Company operates and increases in raw material costs. The Company will continue to assess market needs with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner. 27 Table of Contents Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. On an overall basis, the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies in 2007 and closed the year at exchange rate levels weaker than the exchange rate levels as of the end of 2006. The impact of currency rate changes increased reported sales by approximately 3.5% during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Any further weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would benefit the Companys future results of operations. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Companys future sales and results of operations. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased approximately 16.5% over the comparable period of 2006. Sales from existing businesses contributed 4.5% growth. Acquisitions contributed 8.5% to the sales growth during 2007. The impact of currency translation on sales provided 3.5% growth as the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies throughout 2007. References in this report to sales from existing businesses include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect. The growth in sales from acquisitions in the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily related to acquisitions in the Companys Medical Technologies and Professional Instrumentation businesses. The acquisitions of Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. (Sybron) in May 2006 and Vision Systems Limited (Vision), at the end of 2006, both of which are part of the Medical Technologies segment, have contributed the majority of this year over year acquisition related revenue growth. Also contributing to the year over year growth are the acquisitions of ChemTreat in July 2007 and Tektronix in November 2007, both of which are included in the Professional Instrumentation segment, and the acquisitions of other smaller businesses in the Medical Technologies, Professional Instrumentation and Industrial Technologies segments. Operating profit margins from continuing operations for the Company were 15.8% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to 15.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Following are the key factors impacting the year over year comparison of operating profit margins: Operating profit margin improvements in the Companys existing businesses contributed 85 basis points of margin improvement primarily as a result of broad based operating profit margin improvements across the Companys business segments. Operating profit margins benefited from on going cost reduction initiatives including application of the Danaher Business System and low cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage created from sales growth compared with the prior year period. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of our segments, and the Companys low cost region sourcing and production initiatives, are both expected to positively impact operating profit margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in future periods. The dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced 2007 operating profit margins by 90 basis points, including the expensing of approximately $68.2 million of acquisition related charges for in process research and development and the fair values of acquired inventory and deferred revenues during 2007 in connection with the acquisition of Textronix. 28 Table of Contents The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Companys deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Companys effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The Company expects the tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 27%. The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Professional Instrumentation $ 3,537.9 $ 2,906.5 $ 2,600.6 Medical Technologies 2,998.0 2,220.0 1,181.5 Industrial Technologies 3,153.4 2,988.8 2,794.9 Tools & Components 1,336.6 1,350.8 1,294.5 Total $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION Businesses in the Professional Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical customers various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. The Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic businesses: environmental and test and measurement. These businesses produce and sell bench top and compact, professional electronic test tools and calibration equipment; water quality instrumentation and consumables and ultraviolet disinfection systems; industrial water treatment solutions; and retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including dispensers, payment systems, underground storage tank leak detection and vapor recovery systems. Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 3,537.9 $ 2,906.5 $ 2,600.6 Operating Profit 709.5 625.6 538.3 Depreciation and amortization 64.8 48.8 47.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.1 % 21.5 % 20.7 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.8 % 1.7 % 1.8 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 6.5 % 7.5 % Acquisitions 12.0 % 4.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % 0.5 % Total 22.0 % 12.0 % 29 Table of Contents 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 As detailed in the table above, segment sales for Professional Instrumentation increased 22.0% for 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the segments strategic lines of business. Prices accounted for approximately 1.5% sales growth and the impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margins were 20.1% in 2007 compared to 21.5% in 2006. Operating profit margin improvements of 135 basis points related to existing businesses were more than offset by the dilutive impact of lower operating profit margins of acquired businesses, which reduced segment operating profit margins by 260 basis points compared to 2006. Included in the dilutive impact on operating margins from acquired businesses is approximately $68 million (185 basis points) in charges associated with the acquisition of Tektronix, primarily related to acquired in process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue. In addition, year over year comparisons are impacted by a gain on the sale of real estate during 2006 and recovery of certain previously written off receivables during 2006 which increased that periods operating profit margins by 15 basis points. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 60% of segment sales for 2007, increased 16.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.0% growth and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth. The Companys water quality businesses experienced low double digit revenue growth for 2007 compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strength in sales of laboratory and process instrumentation products in all major geographic regions. In addition, sales of the Companys ultraviolet water treatment systems grew double digit compared to 2006. Investment in sales forces and other growth initiatives, in addition to continued penetration of the Asian wastewater market, including a significant reclamation project in Australia, contributed to the growth. Sales growth from acquisitions primarily relates to the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007. The acquisition of ChemTreat expands the scope of the water quality business in the area of industrial water treatment solutions and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities from existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum equipment business experienced low single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business point of sale payment systems and service business enjoyed robust growth in 2007, primarily in Europe. In addition, the business experienced strong demand during 2007 for its recently introduced leak detection systems in North America and China during 2007. These sales gains were offset by difficult prior year comparisons, a result of strong dispenser sales in 2006 due to extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory mandates in Mexico that did not repeat in 2007. Test and Measurement. Sales from the Companys test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 40% of segment sales for 2007, grew 31.5% compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 20.0% growth and currency translation accounted for approximately 3.5% growth. New product offerings in the thermography, power quality test and process calibration markets generated strong sales in the electrical and industrial channels in all major geographical areas during 2007. The network test business experienced mid single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Large orders from telecommunications carriers in the United States during the first three quarters of 2007 and cable test equipment sales in Europe were the primary drivers of the network test growth. Acquisition growth was primarily related to the acquisition of Tektronix in addition to several smaller acquisitions throughout the year. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 substantially increases the product line and geographic scope of the test and measurement business, particularly in Asia, and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danahers existing test and measurement business is also expected to yield significant cost reductions. 30 Table of Contents 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Professional Instrumentation segment sales increased 12% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases contributed 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the Companys strategic lines of business. Operating profit margins for the segment were 21.5% in 2006 compared to 20.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses which reduced segment operating margins by approximately 40 basis points in 2006 compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R reduced operating profit for the segment by approximately $14.7 million and contributed to a 50 basis point reduction in operating profit margins in 2006 compared to 2005. Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment Environmental. Sales from the Companys environmental businesses, representing approximately 63% of segment sales for 2006, increased 10.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 2% growth and currency translation accounted for 0.5% growth. The Companys water quality businesses experienced mid single digit sales growth for 2006. This growth was primarily the result of strength in the business laboratory and process instrumentation products in both the North American and European markets. Sales in Asia grew over 20% in 2006 reflecting continued penetration of these markets. The business ultra analytics business reported mid single digit growth in 2006. Sales growth in North America and Europe, as well as the impact of new product introductions, drove the improvements. Lower sales in Asia reflecting in part a difficult comparable sales period in 2005 due to certain large projects not repeating in 2006, partially offset these improvements. Sales growth from acquired businesses primarily reflects the impact of three smaller acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2006. The Gilbarco Veeder Root retail petroleum product and service business reported high single digit sales growth in 2006 compared to low single digit sales growth in 2005. This growth was driven by extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory incentives in Mexico that encouraged dispensers to be embedded with tamper proof capability. The businesses newly introduced dispensing equipment and its recently introduced point of sale equipment were favorably received which also contributed to this growth. Test and Measurement. Sales from the Companys test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 37% of segment sales for 2006, grew 14.5% compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 7.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.5% growth and currency translation had a negligible impact. Sales growth from existing businesses in 2006 continued the strong growth experienced throughout 2005. The business experienced high single digit growth in traditional industrial channels in all major geographic regions with particular strength in the Asian and Latin American markets. Demand for the businesses thermography and new power quality test products contributed significantly to this overall growth. The Companys network test business reported mid single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005. Sales growth slowed in North America and Europe in 2006 compared to 2005 since 2005 benefited from several new product launches. The network test business experienced somewhat stronger sales growth in China and Latin America in 2006 compared to 2005. MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES The Medical Technologies segment consists of businesses which offer dentists, other doctors and hospital and research professionals various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. 31 Table of Contents Medical Technologies Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 2,998.0 $ 2,220.0 $ 1,181.5 Operating Profit 393.2 261.6 138.7 Depreciation and amortization 119.7 84.3 44.2 Operating profit as a % of sales 13.1 % 11.8 % 11.7 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.0 % 3.8 % 3.7 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 8.0 % 8.5 % Acquisitions 22.0 % 78.0 % Currency exchange rates 5.0 % 1.5 % Total 35.0 % 88.0 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 As detailed in the table above, segment sales increased 35% for 2007 compared to 2006. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed 1.0% to overall sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses contributed 100 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement in 2007. Improvements in the operating profit margins of the dental consumable, acute care diagnostic and life sciences instrumentation businesses were partially offset by lower operating profit margins in the dental equipment businesses. Recently acquired businesses adversely impacted 2007 operating profit margins by 40 basis points as compared to 2006. In addition, on a comparative basis, 2007 operating margins benefited approximately 50 basis points from the adverse impact on 2006 operating margins that resulted from charges recorded associated with the fair value of acquired inventory related to the acquisition of Sybron. Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment The segments dental business experienced mid single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business experienced increased sales volumes in its restorative and orthodontia products as well as in the instrument and treatment unit product offerings across all major geographies. In addition, increased sales of both two dimensional and three dimensional imaging products contributed to the revenue growth in the European market. This growth was partially offset by a decline in instrument and treatment unit sales to Asia reflecting a weak overall Japanese market and the need to re register certain products with regulatory authorities in South Korea. Radiometers acute care diagnostics business experienced high single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Increasing sales of diagnostic instruments in Europe (particularly Russia) in 2007 contributed to this sales growth. The North American and Asia/Pacific markets also contributed to the growth, although at somewhat lower rates than those experienced in the European markets. The increase in instrument placements in 2007 is expected to result in increased consumables sales in future periods. New product introductions resulting from the business continued research and development efforts are also contributing to this growth. Leica Microsystems life science instrumentation business experienced mid teens revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Robust microscopy demand, particularly confocal microscopes, in North America and Asia were the primary growth drivers. The integration of Vision with Leica Microsystems has been completed and has generated 32 Table of Contents incremental revenue growth, the majority of which has been included as a component of acquisition growth during 2007. Visions revenue grew approximately 30% in 2007 compared to 2006 when it was a stand alone company. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Medical Technologies segment sales increased 88% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Operating profit margins for the segment were 11.8% in 2006 compared to 11.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing operations, largely as a result of margin improvements within the dental technology businesses, were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses, primarily Leica and the expensing of in process research and development in connection with the acquisition of Vision which reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 45 basis points compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R resulted in approximately $6 million of stock option compensation expense and reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 30 basis points compared to 2005. The Company also recorded a $4.5 million charge in the first quarter of 2006 for impairment of a minority interest in a medical technologies company, which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 20 basis points compared to 2005. Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment The Companys dental technology businesses experienced high single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Growth in the dental technology businesses was driven by continued strength in the instrument product lines as well as strong sales of imaging product lines in North America and Asia driven by new product introductions. The Company completed two acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2006 which further enhanced its imaging product offerings. Sybron experienced low double digit sales growth in 2006; however, all Sybron sales in 2006 are reported as a component of acquisition growth due to its May 2006 acquisition. Radiometers acute care diagnostics business experienced mid single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Radiometers sales improved in all major geographic regions with particular strength in sales of consumables in Europe resulting from broad based diagnostic instrument placements in the first half of 2006. Leicas life science instrumentation business experienced high single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Strength from the sale of stereo microscopes and specimen preparation equipment drove growth in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent North America. Leicas sales have been included as a component of sales from existing businesses since the first anniversary of the acquisition and were reported as a component of acquisition growth prior to that anniversary date. Vision has been consolidated with the segments results as of the date the Company gained control of Vision in November 2006 and its sales are also included as a component of acquisition growth for 2006. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES Businesses in the Industrial Technologies segment manufacture products and sub systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic businesses, motion and product identification, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense, and sensors & controls. These businesses produce and sell product identification equipment and consumables; motion, position, speed, temperature, and level instruments and sensing devices; liquid flow and quality measuring devices; safety devices; and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company disposed of the power quality businesses that were part of this segment and all current and prior year period results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued operations. 33 Table of Contents Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 3,153.4 $ 2,988.8 $ 2,794.9 Operating profit 532.5 467.7 409.3 Depreciation and amortization 63.2 61.1 60.4 Operating profit as a % of sales 16.9 % 15.7 % 14.6 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.2 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses 1.5 % 6.0 % Acquisitions 0.5 % 1.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % 0.5 % Total 5.5 % 7.5 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Price increases contributed 1.5% of sales growth compared to 2006 which impact is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margin improvements in the segments existing businesses contributed 85 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement for 2007 as compared to 2006. This margin improvement was driven in part by continued margin expansion in the motion businesses reflecting pricing and productivity initiatives as well as the impact of lower levels of lower margin United States Postal Service (USPS) sales in 2007 compared to 2006 within the product identification business. In addition, during 2007, the segment recorded a pre tax gain of $12 million upon collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit, which improved operating profit margins by 40 basis points for 2007. These positive factors were partially offset by new acquisitions, restructuring activities, spending for product development and emerging market sales force initiatives, all of which are expected to have a positive impact in 2008. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Motion Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2007, increased 2.5% over 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decrease in sales and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth in sales during 2007. There were no acquisitions in the business in 2007 or 2006. During 2007, the motion business experienced sales growth primarily in the elevator markets as a result of global conversions to more energy efficient systems and new construction demand in Asia. Demand in OEM applications in Europe also contributed year over year sales growth. These growth drivers, however, were more than offset by year over year sales declines resulting from weakness in certain technology end markets as well as declines in the miniature motors business reflecting reduced customer demand. Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in 2007. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales 34 Table of Contents from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decline while currency translation contributed 3.5% to revenue growth and acquisitions contributed 1.0% to revenue growth in 2007. The 2007 decline in sales from existing operations resulted from the business completing several large systems installation projects with the USPS during 2006 which did not repeat in 2007. Sales for the business non USPS marking products grew at a mid single digit rates during 2007 compared to 2006. Strong equipment and after market sales, particularly in China, Latin America and Europe, were the primary drivers of this growth facilitated by increased investments in the business sales force and new product launches in these regions. Focused Niche Businesses The segments niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 10% sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses, partially offset by sales declines in the Companys sensors and controls business, reflecting continued softness in the semi conductor and electronic assembly markets. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Sales growth from existing businesses was due primarily to sales growth in the motion, aerospace and defense and sensor and controls businesses. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Several small acquisitions in 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 accounted for 1% growth. Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.7% in 2006 compared to 14.6% in 2005. The overall improvement in operating profit margins was driven primarily by additional leverage from sales growth, on going cost reductions associated with Danaher Business System initiatives completed during 2005 and 2006, and margin improvements in businesses acquired in prior years, which typically have higher cost structures than the Companys existing operations. Recently acquired businesses had no dilutive impact on overall operating profit margins for 2006. The improvements to operating profit margins were partially offset by the implementation of SFAS No. 123R which required the Company to record approximately $14.5 million of stock option compensation costs and reduced operating profit margins by 45 basis points in 2006 compared with 2005. Operating profit margin comparisons for 2006 compared to 2005 are also negatively impacted by 35 basis points related to gains on sale of a business and the collection of a previously reserved note receivable during 2005 and were positively impacted by 65 basis points related to a fourth quarter 2005 loss from the settlement of patent infringement litigation not repeating in 2006. Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment Motion. Sales in the Companys motion businesses, representing approximately 33% of segment sales in 2006, increased by 6% over 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 5% growth; acquisitions accounted for 0.5% growth and currency translation contributed growth of 0.5%. Sales from existing businesses increased from 2005 levels due primarily to broad based growth across the standard and custom motor, drive and controls lines. This growth was somewhat offset by softness in certain technology end markets. The business also experienced continued growth in sales of its linear products during 2006. Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 27% of segment sales in 2006. Sales from the Companys product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Existing businesses provided 2.5% growth. Favorable currency impacts accounted for 1% growth. Acquisitions had a negligible impact on growth for 2006. The increase in sales is due primarily to the increase in sales of laser and thermal transfer overlay equipment as well as sales of consumables and services in North America and Europe. These increases in sales were offset by the completion of several large United States Postal Service (USPS) projects in the first half of 2006 at both AccuSort and Videojet. Focused Niche Businesses. The segments niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 11.0% sales growth in 2006 compared to 2005. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Companys sensors and controls and aerospace and defense businesses. 35 Table of Contents TOOLS & COMPONENTS The Tools & Components segment is one of the largest producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include toolboxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and custom designed fasteners and components. Tools & Components Selected Financial Data For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 1,336.6 $ 1,350.8 $ 1,294.5 Operating profit 175.6 194.1 199.3 Depreciation and amortization 20.8 21.4 22.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 13.1 % 14.4 % 15.4 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.6 % 1.6 % 1.8 % Components of Sales Growth 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 Existing businesses (0.5 )% 4.5 % Product line divestiture (1.0 )% 0.0 % Currency exchange rates 0.5 % 0.0 % Total (1.0 )% 4.5 % 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Sales from existing businesses for 2007 reflect the impact of certain regulatory requirements that became effective at the beginning of 2007 which accelerated demand for the Companys engine retarder products in 2006 and have adversely impacted demand in 2007. Price increases partially offset the decline in sales and contributed approximately 2.5% of sales growth compared to 2006. The impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margins for the segment were 13.1% in 2007 compared to 14.4% in 2006. Costs associated with workforce reductions and adjustments to production levels to match demand in the engine retarder business decreased operating profit margins by 85 basis in 2007 compared with 2006. Lower sales volumes in the mechanics hand tool business with Sears/K Mart and increased lead costs in the wheel weight business also had a negative impact on the 2007 operating margins. In addition, operating profit margins were adversely impacted by 40 basis points as a result of expenses incurred in connection with a fire in one of the business manufacturing facilities in China and restructuring costs incurred primarily in the fourth quarter of 2007 to close one facility and reduce headcount. Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment Mechanics hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales in 2007, grew 1.0% in 2007 compared to 2006. The segments Matco business grew slightly during 2007 as the business benefited from recent product introductions and price increases which offset declines in distributor average purchase levels during 2007. The retail hand tool business experienced strength in China and in its export business to Europe, as well as certain of its retail channels. This performance, in large part, was offset by a decline in sales to Sears/K Mart, the retail hand tools business largest customer. Year over year softness in same store sales of hand tools at Sears/K Mart continues to impact adversely the business. 36 Table of Contents The segments niche businesses experienced mid single digit sales declines during 2007 as compared to 2006. The impact of the regulatory issue noted above was partially offset by improved sales performance in the segments wheel service business during 2007 driven by price increases necessary to recover increased lead costs. 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Sales from existing businesses contributed substantially all of the growth for the segment in 2006, including approximately 1.5% growth due to price increases that the Company implemented largely as a result of cost increases in steel and other commodities. Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.4% in 2006 compared to 15.4% in 2005. Implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006 reduced segment operating profit by approximately $6 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, negatively impacting year over year operating margins by 45 basis points. The Company also incurred costs associated with exiting a small product line during the second half of 2006 which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 30 basis points. Operating profit margins also declined during 2006 due to lower margin products accounting for a larger proportion of sales within the segment as well as due to higher overall freight costs. Finally, year over year operating margin comparisons were negatively impacted by approximately 40 basis points as a result of a $5.3 million ($3.9 million after taxes) gain on the sale of real estate in 2005. The adverse impacts on operating margins described above were offset somewhat by the impact of leverage from higher sales levels, including the pricing actions implemented in 2006, as well as the benefit of restructuring actions taken in 2005. Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment Mechanics hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales, grew 5% in 2006 compared to 2005. The sales growth was driven primarily by the groups Matco business which achieved high single digit growth during 2006 driven by increases in both the number of distributors and their average purchase levels. The retail mechanics hand tools business also grew in the second half of 2006 compared to the second half of 2005 as sell through at Sears, a major customer of the segment, improved from prior year levels. The business continued to experience growth with its other retail customers as well as expanding markets for the business products in China. The segments niche businesses experienced mid single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005 as strength in the truck box and engine retarder businesses was partially offset by weakness in the chuck business. GROSS PROFIT For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 Cost of sales 5,985.0 5,269.0 4,467.3 Gross profit 5,040.9 4,197.1 3,404.2 Gross profit margin 45.7 % 44.3 % 43.2 % The increase in gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2007 as compared to 2006 resulted from leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low cost region initiatives and generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired and increases in selling prices. Gross profit margins also improved due to lower margin sales to United States Postal Service in the product identification business comprising a smaller proportion of sales during 2007 compared to 2006. The gross margins for 2007 also benefited from the inclusion of a full year of results from higher margin Sybron business as compared to 2006 which only included seven months of Sybron results as a result of Sybron acquisition in May 2006. The improvements were partially offset by higher commodity costs incurred in 2007 for which full recovery in the form of price increases dilutes reported margins. 37 Table of Contents Gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2006 benefited from leverage on increased sales volume, the on going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low cost region initiatives, generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired. Increases in selling prices to offset some of the increases in cost and surcharges related to steel and other commodity purchases also contributed to gross profit improvement. These improvements were partially offset by a change in mix to certain lower margin businesses including the Gilbarco Veeder Root business and sales to the United States Postal Service in the product identification business. In addition, the Company recorded a loss on a product development venture in the first quarter of 2006 and incurred higher initial product costs associated with the Sybron acquisition in the second quarter of 2006, which further reduced gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2006. OPERATING EXPENSES For the Years Ended December 31($ in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Sales $ 11,025.9 $ 9,466.1 $ 7,871.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,713.1 2,273.2 1,777.7 Research and development expenses 601.4 440.0 374.3 SG&A as a % of sales 24.6 % 24.0 % 22.6 % R&D as a % of sales 5.5 % 4.6 % 4.8 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 60 basis points during 2007 as compared to 2006 levels. The year over year increases resulted from recently acquired businesses (principally Sybron Dental and Vision) which generally have higher operating expense structures, compared to the Companys other businesses, as well as increased investment in sales forces in emerging markets. These increases were partially offset by operating leverage from higher sales during 2007 as compared to 2006. In addition, the recovery of certain previously written off indemnity receivable balances during 2007 favorably impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were higher in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of the higher operating expense structures of businesses acquired during 2006 as well as the implementation of SFAS No. 123R at the beginning of 2006 which required the Company to record approximately $55.0 million in stock option compensation costs. Research and development expenses, consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs, as a percentage of sales, were approximately 90 basis points higher in 2007 as compared to 2006. In 2007, the Company expensed approximately $60.4 million of in process research and development related to the Tektronix acquisition as compared to approximately $6.5 million of in process research and development expensed in 2006 related to the Vision acquisition. Newly acquired companies and their higher, relative research and development cost structures also contributed to the year over year increase. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales during 2006 were consistent with the 2005 level. The Company continues to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses. INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $109.7 million in 2007 was approximately $30.3 million higher than 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher average debt levels during 2007, due to borrowings incurred to fund the 2007 acquisitions of Tektronix and ChemTreat and the 2006 acquisitions of Sybron and Vision. Interest expense for 2006 was higher than 2005 by approximately $34.9 million. The increase in interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was also due to higher debt levels during 2006 as compared to 2005, as a result of borrowings incurred to fund the acquisitions of Sybron Dental and Vision. 38 Table of Contents Interest income of $6.1 million, $8.0 million and $14.7 million was recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Average invested cash balances were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in late 2006 and throughout 2007 as well as to repurchase shares of Company common stock in 2007. In addition, lower interest rates prevailing during 2007 contributed to the decrease in interest income. Average invested cash balances decreased during 2006 compared to 2005 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in 2005 and 2006, to finance repurchases of the Companys outstanding common stock in the second half of 2005 and to repay the previously outstanding Eurobonds in July 2005. In addition, 2005 interest income reflects the collection of $4.6 million of interest on a note receivable which had not previously been recorded due to collection risk. INCOME TAXES General The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below) and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate for 2007 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2007, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States was approximately $5.4 billion. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for potential tax contingencies. Based on these reviews and the result of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Companys estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Companys earnings and or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates. Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of Interpretation No. 48, the Company recognized a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $63 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. The Companys effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 25.8%, 22.4% and 27.3%, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Companys deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Companys effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 39 Table of Contents The Companys effective tax rate from continuing operations of 22.4% for 2006 was 4.9% lower than the effective tax rate for 2005. The effective tax rate for 2006 benefited by $69 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, as a result of the reduction of valuation allowances related to foreign tax credit carryforwards that are now expected to be realized, the favorable resolution of examinations of certain previously filed returns which resulted in the reduction of previously provided tax reserves and the impact of a change in German tax law which entitles the Company to cash payments in lieu of previously held unrecognized tax credits. These positive impacts were partially mitigated by a higher effective tax rate applicable to the second quarter 2006 gain on the sale of shares of First Technology, plc (see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) which increased the overall provision by $1.5 million compared to what would have been incurred using the Companys overall effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2008 is expected to be approximately 27%. INFLATION Inflation did not significantly impact the Companys overall results of operations in either 2007 or 2006. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The fair value of fixed rate long term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt, excluding the LYONs, would decrease by approximately $74 million. The LYONs have not been included in this calculation as the value of the convertible debt is primarily derived from the LYONs conversion feature. This methodology has certain limitations, and these hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Companys results of operations or financial condition under current accounting principles. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Other than the above noted swap arrangements, there were no material derivative financial instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. Additionally, the Company does not have significant commodity contracts or other derivatives. Exchange Rate Risk Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Eurobond Notes described below, as well as the European component of the 40 Table of Contents commercial paper program, which as of December 31, 2007 had aggregate outstanding borrowings in an amount equivalent to $969 million, provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, interest rate swap agreements and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company anticipates, however, that counter parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under these instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments and its interest rate swap agreements with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support these financial instruments, it does periodically evaluate the credit standing of the counter party financial institutions. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity ($ in millions) For the Years Ended December 31 2007 2006 2005 Operating cash flows from continuing operations $ 1,699.3 $ 1,530.8 $ 1,189.3 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (53.5 ) 16.5 14.5 Net cash flows from operating activities 1,645.8 1,547.3 1,203.8 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (162.1 ) (136.4 ) (119.7 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (3,576.6 ) (2,656.1 ) (885.1 ) Cash paid for investment in acquisition target and other marketable securities (23.2 ) (84.1 ) Proceeds from sale of investment and divestitures 301.3 98.5 22.1 Other sources 15.5 10.0 18.8 Investing cash flows from continued operations (3,445.1 ) (2,768.1 ) (963.9 ) Investing cash flows from discontinued operations (0.7 ) (1.3 ) (1.5 ) Net cash used in investing activities (3,445.8 ) (2,769.4 ) (965.4 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 733.0 98.4 59.9 Borrowings, net of repayments 1,131.0 1,145.0 (292.2 ) Purchase of treasury stock (117.5 ) (257.7 ) Payment of dividends (34.3 ) (24.6 ) (21.6 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,712.2 1,218.8 (511.6 ) Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $168.5 million, or approximately 11.0% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $104.8 million to the increase in operating cash flow from continuing operations in 2007 compared to 2006, and non cash stock compensation expense and increases in depreciation and amortization also positively impacted cash flow. Operating working capital, which the Company defines as trade accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable, was a net source of cash flow in 2007 despite higher sales levels as overall operating 41 Table of Contents working capital turns improved from the levels experienced during 2006. Operating working capital contributed $69 million to operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to $31 million contributed to operating cash flow during 2006. As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash in all periods presented. The Company acquired 12 companies and product lines during 2007 and completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned as of December 31, 2006, for total consideration of $3.6 billion in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 for total consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired, and the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007 for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs, constituted the largest acquisitions during the period. During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the net proceeds from the Companys November 2007 common stock offering, and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the net proceeds from the Companys December 2007 offering of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018. The Company financed the ChemTreat acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, pension funding decisions and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, was approximately $1.7 billion for 2007, an increase of $169 million, or approximately 11% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $105 million to the increase in operating cash flow in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating cash flows during 2007 benefited from increases in non cash depreciation and amortization charges of approximately $53 million compared to 2006. The increase in depreciation and amortization is primarily related to recent acquisitions. Also benefiting operating cash flows during 2007 is $68 million of non cash acquisition related charges incurred primarily related to acquired in process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Tektronix. Because this expense adversely impacts net earnings but does not require the use of cash, it positively impacts the comparison of operating cash flow as a percentage of net earnings. Operating working capital contributed approximately $38 million to the increase in operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to 2006. The increase in operating working capital is primarily a result of improvements in the Companys inventory turnover and days payables outstanding in 2007. These improvements were somewhat offset by an increase in income tax payments related to continuing operations of approximately $74 million during 2007 as compared to 2006. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $3.4 billion during 2007 compared to $2.8 billion of net cash used in the comparable period of 2006. Gross capital spending of $162 million for 2007 increased $26 million from $136 million during 2006, primarily due to capital spending relating to new acquisitions and increased spending related to investments in the Companys low cost region sourcing initiatives, new products and other growth opportunities. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving 42 Table of Contents information technology systems. In 2008, the Company expects capital spending to exceed $200 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $2.8 billion in 2006 compared to approximately $965 million in 2005. Gross capital spending increased $17 million in 2006 from 2005 levels to $138 million. As discussed below, the Company completed several business acquisitions and divestitures during 2007, 2006 and 2005. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 2007 Acquisitions and Divestiture In November 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the Companys November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the proceeds from the Companys December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes (described below). In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. The Company financed the acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. In addition, the Company acquired ten other companies or product lines during 2007 for consideration of approximately $273 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. Each company acquired is a manufacturer and assembler of instrumentation products, in market segments such as test and measurement, dental technologies, product identification, sensors and controls and environmental instruments. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these ten acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $123 million. In addition to the ten acquisitions noted above, as discussed below, during the first quarter of 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned by the Company as of December 31, 2006 for cash consideration of approximately $96 million. In July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. This business, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment and designs and manufactures power quality and reliability products and services, had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $130 million in 2006. The Company used the proceeds from this sale for general corporate purposes, including debt reduction and acquisitions. 2006 Acquisitions In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sybron for total cash consideration of approximately $2 billion, including transaction costs and net of $94 million of cash acquired, and assumed approximately $182 million of debt. Sybron is a leading manufacturer of a broad range of products for the dental professional and had revenues of approximately $650 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. Substantially all of the assumed debt was repaid or refinanced prior to December 31, 2006. Danaher financed the acquisition of shares and the refinancing of the assumed debt primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash. 43 Table of Contents In addition, in the last quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Vision for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $525 million, including transaction costs and net of $113 million of cash acquired and assumed $1.5 million of debt. Of this purchase price, $96 million was paid during 2007 to acquire the remaining shares of Vision that the Company did not own as of December 31, 2006 and for transaction costs. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of available cash and the issuance of commercial paper. Vision, based in Australia, manufactures and markets automated instruments, antibodies and biochemical reagents used for biopsy based detection of cancer and infectious diseases, and had revenues of $86 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. The pairing of Vision with the Companys existing life science instrumentation business, Leica, has significantly broadened the Companys product offerings in the anatomical pathology market and has expanded the sales and growth opportunities for both the Leica and Vision businesses. The Company believes that the pairing of Leica and Vision has also created a broader base for the potential acquisition of complementary businesses in the life sciences industry. Total consideration for the other nine businesses acquired during 2006 was approximately $213 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental instrumentation, medical equipment or industrial products, in the market segments of test and measurement, acute care diagnostics, water quality, product identification and sensors and controls. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these nine acquired businesses, at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $140 million. In the first half of 2006, the Company purchased and subsequently sold shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. based public company, in connection with the Companys unsuccessful bid to acquire First Technology. First Technology also paid the Company a break up fee of approximately $3 million. During the second quarter of 2006 the Company recorded a pre tax gain of approximately $14 million ($8.9 million after tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share) in connection with these matters, net of related transaction costs, which is included in other expense (income), net in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings. Disposals of fixed assets and land yielded approximately $10 million of cash proceeds during 2006 due to the sale of three parcels of real estate and miscellaneous equipment. 2005 Acquisitions In the first quarter of 2005 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Linx Printing Technologies PLC, a publicly held U.K based coding and marking business, for $171 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of $2 million. Linx complements the Companys product identification businesses and had annual revenue of approximately $93 million in 2004. In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of German based Leica Microsystems AG, for an aggregate purchase price of 210 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of 12 million and the assumption and repayment at closing of 125 million of outstanding Leica debt ($429 million in aggregate as of the date of the acquisition). The Company funded this acquisition and the repayment of debt assumed using available cash and through borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit totaling $222 million, which have subsequently been repaid. Leica complements the Companys medical technologies business and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested, as described below). In September 2005, the Company also completed the sale of Leicas semiconductor equipment business which was held for sale at the time of the acquisition. In addition to Linx and Leica, the Company acquired eleven smaller companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $285 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as medical technologies, test and measurement, sensors and controls, environmental, product identification, aerospace and defense and motion. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these 44 Table of Contents eleven acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $260 million. In June 2005, the Company divested one insignificant business that was reported as a continuing operation within the Industrial Technologies segment for aggregate proceeds of $12.1 million in cash net of related transaction expenses. Sales related to this business included in the Companys results for 2005 were $7.5 million. Net cash proceeds received on the sale are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In June 2005, the Company collected $14.6 million in full payment of a retained interest that was in the form of a $10 million note receivable and an equity interest arising from the sale of a prior business. The Company had recorded this note net of applicable allowances and had not previously recognized interest income on the note due to uncertainties associated with collection of the principal balance of the note and the related interest. Cash proceeds from the collection of the principal balance of $10 million are included in Proceeds from Divestitures in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Disposals of fixed assets yielded approximately $19 million of cash proceeds during 2005, primarily related to a sale of a building. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Overview Financing cash flows consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $1.7 billion during 2007 compared to $1.2 billion of cash provided during 2006. The increase in cash generated from financing activities was primarily due to: commercial paper borrowings used to finance the acquisition of ChemTreat and a portion of the acquisition of Tektronix; and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering and the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes that were used to finance the acquisition of Tektronix, in each case net of debt repayments, amounts paid for repurchases of common stock and dividends paid during 2007. Total debt was $3,726 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $2,434 million at December 31, 2006. The Companys debt financing as of December 31, 2007 consisted primarily of: $240 (164 million) million of outstanding Euro denominated commercial paper; $1,311 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 (subject to the interest rate swaps described below); $730 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (Eurobond Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018; $606 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $89 million of other borrowings. The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes and the 2018 Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of 2018 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. A downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. The Companys outstanding indentures and comparable instruments contain customary covenants including for example limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 45 Table of Contents Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facilities The Company satisfies its short term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper. Under the Companys U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the credit facilities described below provide credit support for the program, the $2.5 billion of availability under the credit facilities has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $2.5 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions. The Company has classified $1.5 billion of the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility (described below), to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. The remaining commercial paper borrowings are classified as a current obligation. During 2007, the Company utilized its commercial paper program, in part, to fund the acquisitions of ChemTreat and Tektronix. Operating cash flow and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering, in the case of Tektronix, were also utilized to fund the acquisition. The proceeds from the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes were subsequently utilized to reduce outstanding borrowings under the program. As of December 31, 2007, $1,551 million was outstanding under the Companys global commercial paper program, including $1,311 million outstanding under the U.S. dollar commercial paper program with a weighted average interest rate of 4.6% and an average maturity of 12 days and $240 million outstanding under the Euro denominated commercial paper program (164 million) with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% and an average maturity of 32 days. Credit support for part of the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.5 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) which expires on April 25, 2012. The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Companys option, (1) a LIBOR based formula is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, or (2) a formula based on Bank of Americas prime rate or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. In addition, in connection with the financing of the Tektronix acquisition in November 2007, the Company entered into a $1.9 billion unsecured revolving bridge loan facility (the Bridge Facility) which expires on November 11, 2008. The Bridge Facility also provides credit support for the commercial paper program and can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Companys option, either (1) a LIBOR based formula that is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, or (2) a formula based on the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points. The Bridge Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and is required to be prepaid with the net cash proceeds of certain equity or debt issuances by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Together with the Companys pre existing $1.5 billion credit facility, the Bridge Facility increased the Companys aggregate credit facilities to $3.4 billion. In December 2007, the amount of the Bridge Facility was reduced by $0.9 billion leaving the amount of the Bridge Facility at $1.0 billion and the aggregate amount of the Companys credit facilities at $2.5 billion, in each case as of December 31, 2007. There were no borrowings under either the Credit Facility or the Bridge Facility during 2007. Other Long Term Indebtedness In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points. 46 Table of Contents On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each of their LYONs into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2007, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% percent of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1.2 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2007. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. The $250 million of 6.1% notes due 2008 mature October 15, 2008. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the notes having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective net interest rate on $100 million of the Notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. Rates are reset twice per year. At December 31, 2007, the net interest rate on $100 million of the notes was 4.43% after giving effect to the interest rate swap agreement. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 (Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended), the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as effective or perfect hedges. Shelf Registration Statement and Common Stock Offering The Company has a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. In November 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share off the shelf registration statement. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In December 2007, the Company also issued the 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 off the shelf registration statement. Stock Repurchase Program On April 21, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no 47 Table of Contents expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans and for other corporate purposes. During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $117 million. These repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $258 million. The 2005 repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 3.4 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company increased its regular, quarterly dividend to $0.03 per share during the second quarter of 2007, and declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.03 per share payable on January 25, 2008 to holders of record on December 28, 2007. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2007 were $34.3 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements and may borrow under existing commercial paper programs or credit facilities or access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy both short term and long term requirements. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intra company financing is used to provide working capital to the Companys operations. Most of the cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted or prohibited by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intra company transfer of funds, the Companys intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $556 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. 48 Table of Contents Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 3,695.5 $ 329.5 $ 6.9 $ 1,505.8 $ 1,853.3 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 30.8 1.0 3.5 3.0 23.3 Total Long Term Debt 3,726.3 330.5 10.4 1,508.8 1,876.6 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations 604.9 69.1 130.8 100.7 304.3 Operating Lease Obligations (c) 368.1 100.4 143.5 65.2 59.0 Other: Purchase Obligations (d) 417.0 407.4 5.7 3.9 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (e) 1,634.6 312.3 243.6 1,078.7 Total $ 6,750.9 $ 907.4 $ 602.7 $ 1,922.2 $ 3,318.6 (a) As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (e) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and are largely based upon historical experience. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period Total AmountsCommitted Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 208.9 $ 48.0 $ 91.3 $ 45.9 $ 23.7 Guarantees 60.6 35.7 4.8 1.2 18.9 Contingent Acquisition Consideration 43.8 1.0 39.8 3.0 Total $ 313.3 $ 84.7 $ 135.9 $ 50.1 $ 42.6 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and financing counterparties and governmental entities. In connection with three past acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company enters into these types of arrangements to 49 Table of Contents help bridge differences of opinion that the Company and the sellers may have over the appropriate value of the acquired business. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate over the next three years pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $43.8 million over the next three years depending on the performance of the respective businesses during the specified performance period. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Due to the Companys downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Except as described above, as of December 31, 2007 the Company has not entered into any off balance sheet financing arrangements and has no unconsolidated special purpose entities. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain outstanding litigation matters. In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, automobile, aviation, crime, fiduciary, product, general liability, and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions under most of its lines of insurance, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Companys accrual for self insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. 50 Table of Contents For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Companys customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Companys customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its customers. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or events indicate a change in the impairment status. In calculating the fair value of the reporting units, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of 2007, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value for each of the Companys reporting units as of September 30, 2007, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $11 million to approximately $2.3 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This 51 Table of Contents hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from a short fall of approximately $10 million to an excess of approximately $2.1 billion for each of the Companys reporting units. The reporting unit that resulted in a short fall of fair value as compared to carrying value based on a 10% hypothetical change in fair value had $188 million of recorded goodwill at the date of the impairment analysis. Long lived assets. The Company reviews its long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Companys long lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the Companys estimates, long lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination, the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Companys experience in acquiring other companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired companys business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the integration plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities required to integrate the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the net earnings. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances. Risk Insurance. The Company carries significant deductibles and self insured retentions with respect to various business risks. The business risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers compensation and general liability (which includes product liability). For domestic workers compensation and general liability risk, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ("stop loss" insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists for workers compensation and by outside risk insurance experts for product liability. In addition, outside risk experts recommend reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims by evaluating the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2007 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the risk insurance reserves established are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Environmental. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its exposure for environmental related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability as such claims 52 Table of Contents become known. While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Companys involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the Companys estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. If the environmental reserves established by the Company are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Contingent Liabilities. The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Companys settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including managements judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Share Based Compensation: Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options RSUs and restricted stock, based on the fair market value of the award as of the grant date. SFAS No. 123R supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). The Company has adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method of adoption which requires the Company to record compensation cost related to unvested stock awards as of December 31, 2005 by recognizing the unamortized grant date fair value of these awards over the remaining service periods of those awards with no change in historical reported earnings. Awards granted after December 31, 2005 are valued at fair value in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the Company recognizes equity based compensation expense net of an estimated forfeiture rate and recognizes compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award. Prior to 2006, the Company accounted for stock based compensation in accordance with APB 25 using the intrinsic value method, which did not require that compensation cost be recognized for the Companys stock options provided the option exercise price was established at 100% of the common stock fair market value on the date of grant. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share based payment awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based payment awards represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, 53 Table of Contents the equity based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are provided health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company accounts for its pension and postretirement plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions; SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions; and SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106 require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans is computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations. These include assumptions the Company makes relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions used by the Company. The assumptions used in the actuarial valuation include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 6.0% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2007, which represents an increase of 0.25% in the discount rate from December 31, 2006. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the US and non US net obligation by $62 million ($40 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2007. For 2007, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States plan was estimated at 8.0% which is the same as the rate used in 2006. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan invests between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities. The balance of the asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension expense for the U.S. plan for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $13 million (or $8 million on an after tax basis), compared with $17 million (or $11 million on an after tax basis) for this plan in 2006. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2007 would have increased $3.0 million (or $2.0 million on an after tax basis). The Company made no contributions to the U.S. plan in 2007 and is not statutorily required to make contributions to the plan in 2008. The Companys non U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 0.75% to 7.5% for 2007 and ranged from 2.5% to 6.5% for 2006. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective in the year ended December 31, 2006. For a summary of the material provisions of SFAS No. 158, see New Accounting Standards. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006 decreased the Companys minimum pension liability by $13.0 million ($9.1 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over funded positions in certain of the Companys non US pension plans. The Company also recorded other comprehensive income of $10 million ($6.5 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Companys U.S. based retiree benefit program. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $120 million ($81 million, net of tax benefits) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Companys pension plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, approximately $5.7 million ($3.9 million, net of tax) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Companys postretirement plans. 54 Table of Contents The U.S. Pension Protection Act of 2006 was enacted August 17, 2006. While the Act will have some effect on specific plan provisions in the Companys retirement program, its primary effect will be to change the minimum funding requirements for plan years beginning in 2009. Based on initial projections, the Act is expected to slightly increase the amount of our required contributions in 2009. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R) and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 160 clarifies the classification of noncontrolling interests in the financial statements and the accounting for and reporting of transactions between the reporting entity and holders of such noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Management is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure accounts and loans receivable, available for sale and held to maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. Other eligible items include firm commitments for financial instruments that otherwise would not be recognized at inception and non cash warranty obligations where a warrantor is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, such as debt issuance costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument by instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). This statement requires a company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plans over funded status or a liability for a plans under funded status (b) measure a plans assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employers fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income). The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements were effective and adopted by the Company as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employers fiscal yearend statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard reduced the amount of pension and other post retirement liabilities recorded by 55 Table of Contents approximately $23 million as of December 31, 2006 due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over funded positions in certain of the Companys non US pension plans and due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Companys U.S. based retiree benefit program. The Company expects to change its pension plan measurement date to December 31 effective in 2008. See Pension and Other Post Retirement & Employee Benefit Plans above and Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, to clarify certain aspects of accounting for uncertain tax positions, including issues related to the recognition and measurement of those tax positions. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, as required. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease of $63 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R), which requires the company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151, "Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." SFAS No. 151 amends Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 was effective in the Companys first quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a significant impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 56 Table of Contents 
 
