Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For a discussion of risks related to our non US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Major Customers No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2010, 2009 or 2008. Available Information We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com. We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our Internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as U.S. and non U.S. economic and financial market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. The global economic turmoil that began in 2008 continued through 2009, involving widespread recessionary conditions, record levels of unemployment in some countries and volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets. During 2010, the Company began to see signs of an economic recovery in many markets. However, we cannot assure you that these improvements will be broad based and sustainable and will benefit all of the markets we serve, or that we will not experience further adverse effects from broad economic trends. Instability in the global economy and financial markets can adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: reducing demand for our products and services, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing price competition in our served markets; resulting in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; increasing the risk of impairment of long lived assets due to underutilized manufacturing capacity; and 16 Table of Contents increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us. Although we have been able to continue accessing the commercial paper markets through the date of this report, if conditions in the financial markets worsen there can be no assurances that the commercial paper markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. In addition, the failure of one of more of the syndicate members in our credit facilities could reduce the availability of credit and harm our liquidity. The restructuring actions that we have taken to reduce costs could have long term adverse effects on our business. In 2008 and 2009, we implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure. These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities have the effect of reducing our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and technologies, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly as demand for our products increases. These circumstances could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses product demand depends on the customers capital spending budget as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may face decreased demand, decreased market share or price reductions for our products. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and that in many cases have been subject to increasing consolidation. Because of the diversity of products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see Item 1. Business Competition for additional details. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product categories and penetrate new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our products will become obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flow, profitability and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; anticipate and respond to our competitors development of new products and technological innovations; 17 Table of Contents differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings; innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; obtain adequate intellectual property rights; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and encourage customers to adopt new technologies. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the need for regulatory (including antitrust) approvals and the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our ability to grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see the section titled Liquidity and Capital Resources Investing Activities in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for additional details. Our acquisitions involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and return on invested capital: Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable. Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment communitys expectations in any given period, or over the long term. Acquisition related earnings charges (including both pre closing and post closing charges) could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period. Acquisitions could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are not equipped to handle. We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems and retaining key employees and customers. We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition. We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or internal control deficiencies. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. In connection with acquisitions, we often enter into post closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets. 18 Table of Contents The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including potentially dilutive impacts on the Companys earnings per share and other accounting impacts, potential disputes with buyers and distraction of management. In addition, we have retained responsibility for and or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. At December 31, 2010, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets totaled approximately $12.2 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair these assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects. Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and or non U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits and could damage our reputation. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non U.S. jurisdictions. Please see the section titled Income Taxes in the MD&A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and 19 Table of Contents decrease our profitability in any period. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non U.S. tax authorities. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws and the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. The Obama administration has announced proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is not possible for us to predict whether any such proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may adversely impact our results of operations. If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property, could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition related matters. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us 20 Table of Contents against such losses. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, make estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows in any particular period. Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will be at all times effective. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Manufacturing or design defects (including in components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. Recalls and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the environmental, health and safety regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non U.S. governmental and self regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies. In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of (or manufacture and sale of products containing) hazardous or radioactive materials. We cannot 21 Table of Contents guarantee that we will be able to obtain clearance for our new products or modifications to existing products, and if we do such clearance may be time consuming, costly and restrictive. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre market notification rescissions. In addition, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti kickback and false claims laws. We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts. Any failure to comply with these requirements could result in suspension of these contracts and the Companys suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. Failure to comply with these or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import and export products and services, disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and damage to our reputation. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the ISO, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.8 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the credit support provided by our credit facilities as of December 31, 2010, we had the ability to incur an additional $1.35 billion of indebtedness under our outstanding commercial paper facilities. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly in connection with acquisitions. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. Our current revolving credit facilities and long term debt obligations impose certain restrictions on us; for more information please refer to the MD&A. If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. We may incur higher costs to produce our products if commodity prices rise. As discussed in Item 1. Business Materials, our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of raw materials. Prices for these raw materials have fluctuated significantly in the past. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to fully pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover higher raw material costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. If we cannot adjust the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changing market conditions or customer demand, our profitability may suffer. In addition, our reliance upon sole sources of supply for certain materials and components could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality. During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our costs may increase. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into non cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design. If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply and could face production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity to reflect the demand for our products, our profitability may suffer. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs and electronic communications. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations. In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, or the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect our growth rate. In addition, the manner in which regulations and related deadlines impact demand for our products may be substantially different from period to period. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to adjust to changes in the healthcare industry, some of which could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include the recently enacted U.S. legislation on healthcare reform, healthcare austerity measures in Europe, wider implementation of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates. Some of these potential changes may cause healthcare industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures or impose excise taxes on medical device companies. These changes could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors products, and if they favor our competitors products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability. International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 2010, approximately 55% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non U.S. operations, including: interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; local product preferences and product requirements; changes in a countrys or regions political or economic conditions (including safety and health issues); trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws; limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and differing protection of intellectual property. Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and growth. 24 Table of Contents If we suffer loss to our facilities, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. The third party insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to these and other risks will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against losses. We own a 50% interest in but do not control the Apex Tool Group joint venture, and as a result we may not be able to direct management of the joint venture in a manner that we believe is in Danahers best interests. In 2010, Danaher and Cooper Industries plc formed a joint venture named Apex Tool Group LLC. Each company contributed its respective tools business to, and received a 50% interest in, the joint venture. Our joint venture partner may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Since we do not control the joint venture, we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture in the manner that we believe is most appropriate. In addition, the joint venture agreement gives each party veto rights with respect to certain fundamental corporate actions, and as a result we cannot assure you that we could effect certain fundamental corporate actions that we believe would be in Danahers best interests. Any of these circumstances and any conflict that may arise between the parties could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. in a facility that we lease. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 219 significant manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide. 112 of these facilities are located in the United States in over 30 states and 107 are located outside the United States in over 50 other countries, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, Latin America and Australia. These facilities cover approximately 18.6 million square feet, of which approximately 12.0 million square feet are owned and approximately 6.6 million square feet are leased. Particularly outside the United States, facilities often serve more than one business segment and may be used for multiple purposes, such as administration, sales, manufacturing, warehousing and or distribution. The number of significant facilities by business segment is: Test & Measurement, 40; Environmental, 42; Life Sciences & Diagnostics, 37; Dental, 34; and Industrial Technologies, 66. We consider our facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. Please refer to Note 12 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to our lease commitments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In 2010, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) alleged that the Paso Robles, California facility of Joslyn Sunbank Company LLC (Sunbank), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, violated certain provisions of the California Hazardous Waste Control Law (HWCL) by submitting insufficient documentation 25 Table of Contents from 2005 to 2009 relating to financial assurance for closure costs, and failing to adhere to wastewater requirements during a certain period of operation. The DTSC has acknowledged that Sunbank is no longer in violation of the HWCL or related regulations and that Sunbank has taken appropriate corrective action in response to the alleged violations. On December 1, 2010, the DTSC and Sunbank settled the alleged violations for a payment of $135,000, as well as payment of the DTSCs administrative costs with respect to this matter, financing of a supplemental environmental project and certain injunctive relief. This matter did not have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. For additional information regarding legal proceedings, please see the section titled Legal Proceedings in the MD&A. 26 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of our executive officers as of February 11, 2011. All of our executive officers hold office at the pleasure of our Board of Directors. Name Age Position Officer Since Steven M. Rales 59 Chairman of the Board 1984 Mitchell P. Rales 54 Chairman of the Executive Committee 1984 H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. 47 Chief Executive Officer and President 1995 Daniel L. Comas 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 1996 James A. Lico 45 Executive Vice President 2002 Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 50 Executive Vice President 2002 William K. Daniel II 46 Executive Vice President 2006 James H. Ditkoff 64 Senior Vice President Finance and Tax 1991 Jonathan P. Graham 50 Senior Vice President General Counsel 2006 Robert S. Lutz 53 Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 2002 Daniel A. Raskas 44 Senior Vice President Corporate Development 2004 Steven M. Rales is a co founder of Danaher and has served on Danahers Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Danahers Chairman of the Board since 1984. He was also CEO of the Company from 1984 to 1990. In addition, for more than the past five years he has been a principal in private business entities in the areas of manufacturing and film production. Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. Mitchell P. Rales is a co founder of Danaher and has served on Danahers Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Chairman of the Executive Committee of Danaher since 1984. He was also President of the Company from 1984 to 1990. In addition, for more than the past five years he has been a principal in private and public business entities in the manufacturing area. Mr. Rales is also a member of the board of directors of Colfax Corporation, and is a brother of Steven M. Rales. H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. has served on Danahers Board of Directors and as Danahers President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2001. He is also a member of the board of directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Daniel L. Comas has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2005. William K. Daniel II joined Danaher as Vice President and Group Executive in July 2006 and was appointed Executive Vice President in July 2008. From 1987 until he joined Danaher he worked at ArvinMeritor, Inc., a supplier of motor vehicle systems and components, in a variety of general management positions, most recently as Senior Vice President. James A. Lico has served as Executive Vice President since September 2005. 27 Table of Contents Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. was appointed Executive Vice President in May 2006. He has served in a variety of general management positions since joining Danaher in 1990, including most recently as Vice President and Group Executive of Danaher from December 2002 until May 2006. James H. Ditkoff has served as Senior Vice President Finance and Tax since December 2002. Jonathan P. Graham joined Danaher as Senior Vice President General Counsel in July 2006. Prior to joining the company, he served as Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy for General Electric Corporation, a diversified industrial company, from October 2004 until June 2006. Robert S. Lutz served as Vice President Chief Accounting Officer from March 2003 to February 2010 and was appointed Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer in February 2010. Daniel A. Raskas joined Danaher as Vice President Corporate Development in November 2004 and was appointed Senior Vice President Corporate Development in February 2010. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR. As of February 11, 2011, there were approximately 3,731 holders of record of our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 2010 2009 High Low DividendsPer Share High Low DividendsPer Share First quarter $ 40.38 $ 35.01 $ 0.02 $ 29.95 $ 23.87 $ 0.01 Second quarter $ 43.65 $ 36.22 $ 0.02 $ 32.45 $ 26.19 $ 0.01 Third quarter $ 41.43 $ 35.71 $ 0.02 $ 34.50 $ 28.52 $ 0.02 Fourth quarter $ 47.35 $ 39.70 $ 0.02 $ 38.28 $ 32.20 $ 0.02 Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our earnings and other factors. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There were no repurchases of equity securities during 2010. On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions (which repurchase program replaced the repurchase program that was authorized by the Board in April 2005). There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2010, 20 million shares remain available for repurchase pursuant to this program. Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities During the fourth quarter of 2010, holders of certain of the Companys Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of 798,151 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. From January 1, 2011 through February 11, 2011, holders of certain of the Companys Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of 5,193,146 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 28 Table of Contents per share. The conversion of LYONs to common stock will not impact diluted earnings per share as the LYONs are considered a dilutive security in all periods presented. In each case, the shares of common stock were issued solely to existing security holders upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Stock Split On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split (effected in the form of a dividend by issuing one additional share of common stock for each issued share of common stock) which was paid on June 10, 2010 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 25, 2010. All prior period share and per share amounts set forth in this report, including earnings per share, dividends per share and the weighted average number of shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for each respective period, have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share information) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Sales $ 13,202,602 $ 11,184,938 $ 12,697,456 $ 11,025,917 $ 9,466,056 Operating Profit 2,166,374 1,542,476 1,869,477 1,740,709 1,500,210 Earnings from continuing operations 1,793,000 (a) 1,151,704 1,317,631 1,213,998 1,109,206 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax 155,906 (b) 12,823 Net earnings 1,793,000 (a) 1,151,704 1,317,631 1,369,904 1,122,029 Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic $ 2.74 (a) $ 1.80 $ 2.06 $ 1.95 $ 1.80 Diluted 2.64 (a) 1.73 1.98 1.86 1.72 Earnings per share from discontinued operations: Basic $ 0.25 (b) $ 0.02 Diluted 0.23 (b) 0.02 Net earnings per share: Basic $ 2.74 (a) 1.80 $ 2.06 $ 2.20 (b) $ 1.82 Diluted 2.64 (a) 1.73 1.98 2.09 (b) 1.74 Dividends per share $ 0.08 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.05 $ 0.04 Total assets $ 22,217,130 $ 19,595,420 $ 17,490,128 $ 17,471,935 $ 12,864,151 Total debt $ 2,824,668 $ 2,933,209 $ 2,619,329 $ 3,726,244 $ 2,433,716 (a) Includes $291 million ($232 million after tax or $0.34 per diluted share) gain on contribution of certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses to the Apex Tool Group, LLC joint venture. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes $211 million ($150 million after tax or $0.23 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Companys power quality business. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Danahers financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Estimates OVERVIEW General Please see Item 1. Business General for a discussion of Danahers objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2010, approximately 55% of Danahers sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry specific economic and political factors. For example, in those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its products and services, typically helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of our geographic and industry diversity we face a variety of challenges and opportunities, including rapid technological development in most of our served markets, the expansion of opportunities in emerging markets, trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force and consolidation of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and our long term growth and profitability will depend in particular on our ability to expand our business (including through geographical and product line expansion), identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of our sales force and continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality. We are making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in our served markets and to globalize our manufacturing, research and development and customer facing resources (particularly in emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil) in order to improve the efficiency of our operations and be responsive to our customers throughout the world. Business Performance and Outlook While differences exist among the Companys businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Companys products and services increased substantially in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulting in aggregate year over year sales growth. The growth in sales is due in part to the stabilization in global economic conditions that began in the fourth quarter 2009, easier year over year comparisons resulting from the recessionary economic conditions that prevailed during most of 2009, investments made in sales growth initiatives and other business specific factors discussed below. Year over year sales growth rates during 2010 were led by emerging markets, with particular strength in China. North America and Europe also grew on a year over year basis, but at a lesser rate than the emerging markets. Providing no significant deterioration in general economic conditions occurs, the Company expects sales to continue to grow on a year over year basis during 2011 but at a moderating rate from that experienced during 2010 due primarily to more difficult year over year comparisons. 31 Table of Contents Acquisitions; Joint Venture with Cooper Industries plc On January 30, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which includes a 50% ownership position in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex joint venture (AB Sciex) and a 100% ownership position in the Molecular Devices business (Molecular Devices). In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. The aggregate purchase price for the combined transactions was $1.1 billion, including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. The aggregate sales of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in their last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition were approximately $650 million and these businesses now operate within the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices significantly expand the Companys position in the life sciences and diagnostics business and in particular establish a position in the mass spectrometry market. AB Sciex is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities in the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment, both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. Company management and other personnel are devoting significant resources to the successful integration of the acquired businesses into Danaher. In addition to the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, the Company acquired 17 businesses during 2010 for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. These businesses were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement, Dental, Environmental and Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these 17 acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $440 million. On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (Cooper), combining certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex). The 2009 sales, on a combined basis, of the two tools businesses contributed to Apex were approximately $1.2 billion. Each of Cooper and the Company owns a 50% interest in Apex and has an equal number of representatives on Apexs Board of Directors. Upon the closing of the transaction, Apex simultaneously obtained a credit facility and term debt financing and used $45 million of the term debt financing to purchase from the Company certain assets of the Companys hand tools business. In addition to the cash received for the purchase of these assets, the Company recorded a receivable from Apex of $45 million upon closing. Subsequent to the formation of the joint venture, the Company collected $11.3 million from Apex related to the receivable and expects to the collect the balance in 2011. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated the financial results of its contributed businesses and began accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. In accordance with accounting standards applicable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries, the Company recognized a $291 million gain ($232.2 million or $0.34 per diluted share on an after tax basis) during the third quarter 2010 associated with the transaction reflecting the difference between the book value of the contributed business that was deconsolidated and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, including the 50% interest in Apex and the cash and receivables received from Apex in connection with the transaction. Recent Acquisition and Divestiture Developments In January 2011, the Company announced that it has agreed to sell its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business for a sale price of $685 million in cash. This business, which is part of the Industrial Technologies segment and supplies safety, security and electric power components to commercial and military aerospace markets globally, had annual revenues of $378 million in 2010. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to the business, and is expected to close in the first half of 2011. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company expects to report an after tax gain on the sale of approximately $200 million or $0.29 per diluted share. The Company committed to sell the business subsequent to the end of 2010 and will be reporting the business as a discontinued operation in future filings. Also in January 2011, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market, for a purchase price of approximately 350 million ($470 million based on exchange rates on the date of the agreement), net of cash acquired. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals 32 Table of Contents and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to EskoArtwork, and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011. EskoArtworks suite of software and hardware solutions helps its customers reduce digital design cycle time and ensure integrity throughout the packaging material supply chain. EskoArtwork had revenues of $247 million (based on exchange rates at December 31, 2010) in its most recent completed fiscal year and is expected to become part of the Companys product identification platform included in the Industrial Technologies segment. On February 6, 2011, the Company and Beckman Coulter, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which the Company is making a cash tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter for $83.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6.8 billion including debt assumed and net of cash acquired, to be followed by a second step cash out merger at the offer price. The offer is subject to customary conditions, including tender of a majority of the outstanding shares (on a fully diluted basis) into the offer, receipt of applicable regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to Beckman Coulter. The Company anticipates completing the offer in the first half of 2011. Beckman Coulter develops, manufactures and markets products that simplify, automate and innovate complex biomedical testing. Its diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and produce information used by physicians to diagnose disease, make treatment decisions and monitor patients. Scientists use its life science research instruments to study complex biological problems including causes of disease and potential new therapies or drugs. Beckman Coulter had revenues of approximately $3.7 billion in 2010, and would become part of the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The Company anticipates financing the acquisition of Beckman Coulter through a combination of available cash, proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and proceeds from the issuance of securities. The Company may also enter into one or more additional credit facilities in order to expand borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and issue commercial paper in amounts in excess of the programs current capacity, and may also enter into one or more bridge loan agreements to provide temporary financing pending the implementation of more permanent financing arrangements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 18.0% compared to 2009. Sales from existing businesses increased 11.5% on a year over year basis. The impact of currency translation decreased reported sales by 0.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly stronger against other major currencies during 2010 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2009. Acquired businesses provided sales growth of approximately 7.0%. In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales calculated according to GAAP but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses, (2) second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture, and (3) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition. The portion of sales attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period to period change in sales (excluding sales from acquired businesses and second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) and (b) the period to period change in sales (excluding the same items) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under managements control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends. The Company excludes the effect of the second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture because as a result of application of the equity method of accounting beginning with the formation of the joint venture on July 4, 2010, the Company did not recognize sales from those businesses in the second half of 2010. Operating profit margins were 16.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 13.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons also benefited from approximately 160 basis points of incremental restructuring costs 33 Table of Contents incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. The favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies in the third quarter 2009 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses, 2009 divestitures and the operating profit margin impact of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by approximately 65 basis points. Acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in the comparable period of 2009) also adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. Operating profit margins were 13.8% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 14.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins during 2009 is primarily a result of lower sales volumes in 2009 compared to 2008, as well as restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the level incurred during 2008 which reduced operating profit margin comparisons by 115 basis points on a year over year basis. In addition, the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 20 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. The gain recognized during 2009 in connection with the Align litigation settlement also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. In addition, accounting charges recorded in 2008 associated with recording the fair value of inventory and deferred revenue acquired in connection with the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 10 basis points as such charges were greater in 2008 than 2009. Business Segments During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company changed the composition of its reportable segments to reflect changes in its internal organization resulting from the rate of growth within certain of the Companys businesses and the contribution of certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses to the Apex joint venture. The Company now reports results in five separate business segments consisting of the Test & Measurement; Environmental; Life Sciences & Diagnostics; Dental; and Industrial Technologies segments. In addition, the historical results of the hand tool businesses contributed to Apex and the Companys equity in earnings of the Apex joint venture will be shown separately in the Companys segment disclosures. The Company previously reported its operations under four segments: Professional Instrumentation; Medical Technologies; Industrial Technologies; and Tools & Components. The table below summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Test & Measurement $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 $ 2,805.0 Environmental 2,738.0 2,418.7 2,413.2 Life Sciences & Diagnostics 2,298.3 1,484.9 1,481.5 Dental 1,824.6 1,657.0 1,795.5 Industrial Technologies 3,193.2 2,795.1 3,471.0 Businesses contributed to Apex joint venture 315.6 607.9 731.3 Total $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 TEST & MEASUREMENT The Companys Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic products, network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Also included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Companys mobile tool and wheel service businesses. 34 Table of Contents Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 $ 2,805.0 Operating profit 572.9 301.4 490.4 Depreciation and amortization 107.8 93.5 90.6 Restructuring and other related charges 67.7 10.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.2 % 13.6 % 17.5 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.8 % 4.2 % 3.2 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 3.0 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 17.0 % (22.0 %) Acquisitions 10.5 % 2.0 % Currency exchange rates (1.0 %) Total 27.5 % (21.0 %) 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 During 2010, demand increased significantly for the business core instruments, including oscilloscopes, thermography products and digital multi meters. Sales were strong in all major geographies, with particular strength in China. In addition, distributor inventory reductions that occurred in the first three quarters of 2009 due to the recessionary economic conditions did not continue into 2010 which positively impacted the year over year comparisons. Sales from existing businesses in the segments network and communication businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 on a year over year basis driven by strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Operating profit margins increased 660 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 265 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. Acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points as such charges were greater in 2009 than in 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 130 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Soft demand across all instrumentation related product lines, attributable to general economic conditions and inventory reductions by distributors, drove sales declines from existing businesses during 2009. Year over year price increases of 1.5% partially offset the sales decline during 2009. While year over year sales declined during each quarter during 2009, the rate of decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year primarily due to the adverse impact of inventory level reductions in the distribution channel that were largely completed by the end of the third quarter. Year over year comparisons for the fourth quarter were also 35 Table of Contents favorably impacted by the decline in demand that commenced in the fourth quarter 2008 resulting in an easier comparison. Sales declined in all significant geographic regions. Year over year sales in the network and communication businesses declined at a lower rate than the instrumentation business primarily as a result of positive performance in the network management solutions businesses which benefited from the competition among mobile telecommunication providers to expand coverage, services and performance of their networks. Operating profit margins decreased 390 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes during 2009, as well as 230 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses also adversely impacted operating profit margins on a year over year basis by 35 basis points. Accounting charges incurred in 2008 associated with recording the fair value of inventory and deferred revenue acquired in connection with the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 120 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses also partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. ENVIRONMENTAL The Companys Environmental segment provides products that help protect our water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Danahers water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure, potable, and waste water in residential, commercial and industrial applications. Danahers retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market. Environmental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,738.0 $ 2,418.7 $ 2,413.2 Operating profit 564.3 471.0 477.3 Depreciation and amortization 45.9 43.1 41.5 Restructuring and other related charges 31.7 18.9 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.6 % 19.5 % 19.8 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.7 % 1.8 % 1.7 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.3 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 10.5 % (1.0 %) Acquisitions 3.0 % 3.5 % Currency exchange rates (0.5 %) (2.5 %) Total 13.0 % 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Sales grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 in both the water quality and retail petroleum equipment businesses. Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 36 Table of Contents Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Demand for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines was led by industrial markets and was stronger in all major geographies as compared to 2009. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a high single digit rate during 2010. Solid year over year growth in the product lines industrial and residential applications was partially offset by a difficult prior year comparison associated with a significant drinking water treatment project that favorably impacted revenues throughout 2009 and into the first half of 2010. Despite the difficult year over year comparison, underlying demand in the product lines municipal markets remains robust. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 due, in part, to continuing expansion of the chemical treatment solutions product line outside of the US market. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail petroleum equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Strong North American demand during 2010 for the business payment and point of sale retail solutions products was driven by enhanced industry standards deadlines and contributed significantly to the year over year sales growth. Demand for dispensing equipment also increased in all major geographic regions due to an increase in capital spending by customers. The business growth rate is expected to moderate in 2011 compared to 2010 as North American demand for payment and point of sale products is expected to moderate following the 2010 deadlines referenced above. Sales declines in the business vapor recovery product offerings in North America, primarily due to regulatory compliance deadlines in 2009 compared to 2010, partially offset these increases. Operating profit margins increased 110 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 100 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 55 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. Incremental year over year investments in 2010 associated with the segments emerging market growth initiatives also negatively impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Sales in the water quality businesses during 2009 were essentially flat on a year over year basis while sales in the retail petroleum equipment businesses declined as compared to 2008. Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses during 2009 were essentially flat as compared to 2008. A mid teens growth rate in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line and a mid single digit growth rate in the chemical treatment solutions product line along with year over year price increases of 2.0% offset low single digit sales declines in the business laboratory and process instrumentation product line. Growth rates in the ultraviolet water treatment product line reflected strength in demand for municipal wastewater applications, as well as shipments related to a significant drinking water treatment plant project that commenced in 2009. In the business laboratory and process instrumentation and consumable product line, general economic conditions adversely impacted demand in all major geographies with the exception of China, where revenues grew at a low double digit rate during 2009. Sales from existing businesses in the retail petroleum equipment business during 2009 declined at a low single digit rate as compared to 2008. Strong North American sales of the business point of sale retail and payment solution product offerings that were driven in part by regulatory requirements were more than offset by lower demand for dispensing equipment, primarily in Europe, and service offerings. Lower demand for the business automatic tank gauge product offerings and leak detection systems also adversely impacted year over year comparisons. The decline in demand for the business leak detection systems was partially attributable to a significant project in 2008 that did not repeat in 2009. Operating profit margins decreased 30 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes from existing businesses during 2009, as well as 45 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The dilutive effect of recently acquired 37 Table of Contents businesses also adversely impacted operating profit margins on a year over year basis by 50 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS The Companys life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that are used by scientists to study cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of complex biological matters. The Companys diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used to diagnose disease, make treatment decisions and monitor patients in hospitals and other critical care settings. Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,298.3 $ 1,484.9 $ 1,481.5 Operating profit 227.9 179.6 193.2 Depreciation and amortization 90.7 56.6 53.7 Restructuring and other related charges 16.7 6.6 Operating profit as a % of sales 9.9 % 12.1 % 13.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.6 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.1 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 9.0 % (1.0 %) Acquisitions 46.0 % 3.5 % Currency exchange rates (2.5 %) Total 55.0 % 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 During 2010, sales from existing businesses grew in each of the segments businesses. Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of AB/Sciex and Molecular Devices in January 2010. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due primarily to strong demand in all major geographies for a new version of the business compact blood gas analyzer. Increased European demand for the business cardiac care instruments as well as continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life sciences instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared 2009. Year over year growth was driven primarily by strong demand in all major geographies for new instruments and consumables in the pathology diagnostics business. Increased sales of compound and stereo microscopy equipment serving the life sciences research and industrial markets also contributed to the growth. Japanese economic stimulus funding also positively impacted 2010 sales as purchases were required to be completed by March 2010 in order to be eligible for Japanese stimulus funding. 38 Table of Contents Operating profit margins decreased 220 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. Acquisition related charges during 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances, primarily related to the AB Sciex and Molecular Devices acquisitions, as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (in each case net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in the comparable period of 2009) adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 270 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 265 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 50 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 During 2009, sales growth in the segments acute care diagnostic and pathology diagnostic businesses was largely offset by sales declines in the segments life sciences instrumentation businesses. Price increases contributed 1.5% sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the acute care diagnostics business grew at a mid single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Continued strong aftermarket consumables sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation drove the majority of the growth during 2009. Increased sales of the business cardiac marking instrument also contributed to the year over year growth. Sales grew at a double digit rate in China and the emerging economies of Latin America during 2009, while combined Europe and North America sales were flat. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life science instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses declined at a low single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales growth attributable to pathology diagnostic instrumentation and associated consumable products, primarily outside of North America, was more than offset by sales declines attributable to lower demand for compound and stereo microscopy equipment primarily in Europe and North America. Lower demand for microscopy equipment resulted largely from lower capital spending in the Companys customer base throughout 2009. While year over year sales in the life sciences instrumentation business declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year as economic stimulus funding, primarily in Japan, began to favorably impact the business. Operating profit margins declined 90 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. Restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the levels incurred during 2008 reduced operating profit margins by 65 basis points on a year over year basis and the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 5 basis points. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 100 basis points. While the year over year sales declines diminished leverage of the segments fixed cost base, the 2009 cost savings attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses offset this adverse impact. DENTAL The Companys Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of equipment and consumables for the dental market, focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative solutions for dental professionals around the world. 39 Table of Contents Dental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 1,824.6 $ 1,657.0 $ 1,795.5 Operating profit before Align gain 203.3 130.8 177.3 Impact of Align gain 85.1 Total operating profit 203.3 215.9 177.3 Depreciation and amortization 81.7 71.3 69.8 Restructuring and other related charges 43.8 19.5 Operating profit as a % of sales 11.1 % 13.0 % 9.9 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.5 % 4.3 % 3.9 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.6 % 1.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 4.5 % (8.5 %) Acquisitions 6.5 % 3.0 % Currency exchange rates (1.0 %) (2.0 %) Total 10.0 % (7.5 %) 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental technologies businesses grew at a low double digit rate and increased in all major product categories during 2010 as compared to 2009. Growth was led by increased sales in the imaging product lines as a result of strong demand for 3D equipment and a recently introduced digital x ray sensor. Year over year demand also increased for the business instruments and treatment units. Imaging product sales were particularly strong in North America and Asia, while instrument and treatment unit sales were particularly strong in Europe. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses were essentially flat in 2010 as compared to 2009. Robust demand for orthodontia products throughout 2010 in addition to increased sales of infection control products were offset by weak demand for general dentistry consumables (primarily during the first three quarters of 2010) primarily as a result of adjustments to inventory levels in distribution channels that occurred during those periods. Demand in the general dentistry consumable businesses increased sequentially in the fourth quarter 2010 as inventories in the distribution channels returned to more normalized levels. Operating profit margins decreased 190 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in operating profit margins is largely due to the favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies that occurred in 2009 and adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 10 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes during 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 145 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Price increases contributed 1.0% sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 40 Table of Contents Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables business in 2009 were essentially flat as compared to 2008. Increased sales of orthodontia and infection control products during 2009 were offset by weaker demand for implants, endodontic products and general dentistry consumables. Lower capital spending by customers and inventory reductions in certain distribution channels drove year over year sales declines at a mid teen rate in the dental technologies businesses. While year over year sales in the dental technologies business declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year due to strong sales of treatment units in Europe, as well as easier year over year comparisons due to a large stocking order for imaging equipment that occurred in the third quarter 2008. Operating profit margins increased 310 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The gain recognized during 2009 in connection with the Align litigation settlement favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. Restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the levels incurred during 2008 reduced operating profit margins by 140 basis points on a year over year basis and the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 20 basis points. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 20 basis points. While the year over year sales declines diminished leverage of the segments fixed cost base, the 2009 cost savings attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset this adverse impact. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Companys Industrial Technologies segment manufactures products and sub systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines, as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment consists of two strategic lines of business, product identification and motion, as well as the sensors and controls, aerospace and defense and engine retarder businesses. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 3,193.2 $ 2,795.1 $ 3,471.0 Operating profit 630.1 400.2 551.1 Depreciation and amortization 60.3 61.3 68.4 Restructuring and other related charges 61.5 24.0 Operating profit as a % of sales 19.7 % 14.3 % 15.9 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.9 % 2.2 % 2.0 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.2 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 13.5 % (17.0 %) Acquisitions 0.5 % 0.5 % Currency exchange rates (3.0 %) Total 14.0 % (19.5 %) 41 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a mid teens rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased demand for core marking and coding equipment as customers released capital spending that had been delayed from prior years. Strong consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies with particular strength in Europe and the emerging markets. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 as demand was strong in the majority of end markets served due primarily to the general economic recovery. While growth was generally broad based, industrial automation led the growth with strong sales of advanced motor and drive product offerings. Sales increased in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due to generally higher demand in most major end markets. Demand increased in the segments sensors and controls businesses and engine retarder business during 2010. Sales in the aerospace and defense businesses were essentially flat compared to 2009 as the aerospace end markets did not begin to recover from the recession until the second half of 2010. Operating profit margins increased 540 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 175 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The divestiture of certain lower margin businesses and product lines in the fourth quarter 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring activities also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 40 basis points. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Sales declines in a majority of the segments businesses during 2009 more than offset sales growth of approximately 1.5% related to price increases which are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses declined at a high single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales declines during 2009 resulted primarily from weak demand for core marking and coding equipment due to lower capital spending by customers as a result of general economic conditions. Sales of consumable products associated with the businesses installed base of marking and coding equipment also declined on a year over year basis but not as significantly as equipment sales. During the fourth quarter of 2009, equipment sales increased on a year over year basis primarily due to emerging market growth. Flat consumable product sales in the fourth quarter of 2009 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 were an improvement compared to year over year consumable sales declines during the first three quarters of the year. Sales in the China market grew during the second half of 2009, resulting in low single digit sales growth for the full year. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses declined at double digit rates during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales declined as a result of weak demand for most of the businesses product offerings attributable to the recessionary economic conditions that existed throughout 2009. While year over year sales in the motion businesses declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved slightly compared to the second and third quarters of the year, due to improvements in demand for certain product offerings and the absence of inventory reductions experienced in early 2009 in the business distribution channels. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses declined at a low double digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. The Companys sensors and controls business saw modest improvement in certain end markets during the fourth quarter 2009 as compared to the first nine months of 2009. Demand in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses softened in the second half of 2009, however, primarily due to declines in demand in the commercial aviation end markets. Continued capital project freezes by the United States Postal Service contributed to year over year sales declines in the business integrated scanning system product line. 42 Table of Contents Operating profit margins in the segment declined 160 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes during 2009, as well as 75 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, combined with the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 10 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset these negative factors. GROSS PROFIT For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 Cost of sales 6,575.8 5,904.7 6,757.3 Gross profit 6,626.8 5,280.2 5,940.2 Gross profit margin 50.2 % 47.2 % 46.8 % Gross profit margins for 2010 increased 300 basis points from 2009. The year over year increase reflects the impact of higher sales volumes as compared to 2009, year over year cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 95 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Gross profit margins during 2010 also benefited from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses that had lower average gross profit margins than the remainder of the Company. Acquisition related charges recorded in 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by approximately 30 basis points. Gross profit margins for 2009 increased 40 basis points from 2008. Cost savings related to 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities primarily drove the year over year improvements in gross profit margin from 2008 to 2009. Lower year over year commodity costs also contributed to the improvement, as costs for several types of raw materials increased sharply in 2008 before declining late in 2008 and into 2009. Lower overall sales volumes during 2009 as compared to 2008 diminished the leverage of the Companys fixed cost base and partially offset these positive factors. In addition, costs incurred associated with year over year incremental 2009 restructuring activities adversely impacted gross profit margins by 65 basis points. OPERATING EXPENSES For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,673.7 3,190.2 3,345.3 Research and development expenses 809.5 632.7 725.4 SG&A as a % of sales 27.8 % 28.5 % 26.3 % R&D as a % of sales 6.1 % 5.7 % 5.7 % The year over year decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2010 reflects the benefit of increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2010 as compared to 2009 in addition to 65 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared 43 Table of Contents to 2010. Incremental year over year investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives, increased commission costs due to the higher sales volumes and the dilutive effect of certain recently acquired businesses and those businesses higher relative operating expense structures partially offset these year over year improvements. The year over year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2008 to 2009 is primarily due to reduced leverage of the Companys cost base caused by lower sales volumes during 2009 as compared to 2008. Incremental year over year costs associated with 2009 restructuring activities adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales by 50 basis points on a year over year basis, although the 2008 and 2009 restructuring actions generated year over year cost savings that partially offset these negative factors. Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased 40 basis points during 2010 on a year over year basis. The increase is primarily attributable to the contribution of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture, as the research and development spending of such businesses has historically been less than the Company average. Overall research and development costs also increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to recently acquired businesses, primarily AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales were flat during 2009 as compared to 2008. The Company continued to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses. EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE As previously discussed, in July, 2010 the Company closed on the formation of the Apex joint venture. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated its contributed businesses and commenced accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. As a result of the Companys continuing involvement with the joint venture, the contributed businesses are not presented as a discontinued operation. The equity in the earnings of Apex, reflecting the Companys 50% ownership position subsequent to the formation, is reflected in the Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture caption in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The impact on the Companys results of operations from (1) the contributed business prior to the formation of Apex, and (2) the Companys equity in the earnings of Apex subsequent to the formation of Apex, is reflected in the table below ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Prior to formation of Apex Sales $ 315.6 $ 607.9 $ 731.3 Operating profit 41.5 63.9 68.2 Subsequent to formation of Apex Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture 22.8 INTEREST EXPENSE AND INCOME For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $121 million in 2010 was essentially flat as compared to 2009. Interest expense of $123 million in 2009 was $7.5 million lower than 2008 primarily as a result of lower average debt levels during 2009 as the Company deployed cash flows to repay a portion of its commercial paper borrowings. Interest attributable to the $750 million principal amount of 5.40% senior unsecured notes issued in March 2009 partially offset the positive impact of the reduction in outstanding commercial paper borrowings. 44 Table of Contents The Company recognized interest income of $6 million, $5 million and $10 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest income in 2010 was higher than interest income in 2009 due to higher average invested cash balances. Interest income in 2009 was lower than interest income in 2008 as the lower interest rates on deposits in 2009 compared to 2008 more than offset higher average invested cash balances. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect managements assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Companys financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period to period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. The Companys effective tax rate for 2010 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $6.5 billion. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the expiration of statutes of limitation, reserves are adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 23.5%, 19.2% and 24.7%, respectively. The Companys 2010 effective tax rate of 23.5% reflects the benefit of earnings outside the United States taxed at rates lower than the U.S. Federal income tax rate. The 2010 effective tax rate includes the benefit of approximately 50 basis points ($11.5 million, or $0.02 per diluted share) of discrete tax reserve reductions associated with resolution of certain international and domestic tax positions and refinements of reserve estimates related to prior period tax contingencies. The Companys tax provision was reduced by approximately $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of the extension of the research and experimentation credit and other U.S. legislation enacted in December 2010 related to taxation of international earnings. The Companys 2009 effective tax rate of 19.2% includes the impact of approximately 680 basis points ($97.2 million, or $0.15 per diluted share) related to gains from the net reduction of reserves associated with the resolution of uncertain tax positions and discrete items. The impact of expensing transaction costs (in accordance with the business combination accounting standard that became effective at the beginning of 2009), much of which are not deductible for income tax purposes, partially offset these beneficial factors. The effective tax rate for 2011 is expected to be approximately 25.5%. The anticipated increase from the 2010 rate is largely attributable to recent U.S. legislation effective as of the beginning of 2011 that repealed or modified certain tax provisions applicable to U.S. companies having international operations that enable the use of foreign tax credits to offset U.S. corporate income taxes. 45 Table of Contents INFLATION The effect of broad based inflation on the Companys operations was not significant in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. Interest Rate Risk A change in interest rates on long term debt impacts the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt but not our earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2010, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from its underlying common stock) by approximately $105 million. However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Companys fixed rate long term debt does not affect the Companys results of operations or stockholders equity. As of December 31, 2010, the Companys variable rate debt obligations relate primarily to U.S. dollar commercial paper borrowings, and as a result its primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2010. As these obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2010, a 100% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $0.4 million. A 100% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2010. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. The Eurobond Notes described below (which as of December 31, 2010 had outstanding borrowings in principal amount equivalent to $669 million) provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Companys net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes, is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2010 (net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes) would result in a reduction of stockholders equity of approximately $450 million. The Company also faces exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its costs are incurred, and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. 46 Table of Contents Currency exchange rates decreased reported 2010 sales by 0.5% on a year over year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly stronger against other major currencies during 2010 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2009. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar that began in the second quarter 2010 and prevailed throughout most of the remainder of 2010 more than offset the U.S. dollars weakness against other major currencies during the first quarter of 2010. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2010 prevail throughout 2011, currency exchange rates will positively impact 2011 reported sales by approximately 1.0% relative to the Companys performance in 2010. Weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would have a further positive impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Companys sales and results of operations on an overall basis. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Companys businesses perform ongoing credit evaluations of their customers financial conditions and typically obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. Equity Price Risk The Companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Companys available for sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2010 would have reduced the fair value of the Companys available for sale investment portfolio by approximately $26 million. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, please see Item 1. Materials. 47 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses and strategic acquisitions and maintain its capital structure on a short and long term basis. For a discussion of risks related to the uncertainty in the financial markets and the global economy in general, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity ($ in millions) For the Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Operating cash flows $ 2,084.4 $ 1,800.8 $ 1,859.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (217.3 ) (188.5 ) (193.8 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (2,129.7 ) (703.5 ) (423.2 ) Cash paid for other investments (66.8 ) Other sources 58.1 15.9 49.6 Net cash used in investing activities (2,288.9 ) (942.9 ) (567.4 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 178.4 174.2 82.4 Debt repayments, net of new borrowings (excluding March 2009 public debt offering) (9.4 ) (469.9 ) (1,092.3 ) Proceeds of March 2009 public debt offering 744.6 Purchase of treasury stock (74.2 ) Payment of dividends (52.2 ) (41.7 ) (38.2 ) Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities 116.8 407.2 (1,122.3 ) Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $284 million, or approximately 16%, during 2010 as compared to 2009. Funding for acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during 2010. The Company acquired 19 businesses during 2010. Total consideration paid for these acquisitions was approximately $2.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The Company repaid approximately $9 million of debt (net of new borrowings) during 2010. The Companys restructuring activities used approximately $110 million in cash during 2010. The Company contributed approximately $90 million in cash to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $33 million to the Companys non U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents. 48 Table of Contents Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flow was approximately $2.1 billion for 2010, an increase of $284 million, or 16% as compared to 2009. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the increase in earnings in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting this benefit was an investment in trade accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable which in the aggregate used $204 million of cash flow during 2010 as compared to contributing $228 million of cash flow during 2009. The increased use of cash reflects increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, partially offset by increased accounts payable levels, associated with increased business activity. Operating cash flow was approximately $1.8 billion for 2009, a decrease of $58 million, or approximately 3% as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the decrease in earnings in 2009 as compared to 2008 and to a lesser extent attributable to the year over year incremental amount of cash paid related to the Companys restructuring activities. In addition, the Company voluntarily contributed $60 million to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2009 while it made no contribution in 2008. The declines in operating cash flow were partially offset by cash generated from the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable which contributed $228 million of cash flow during 2009 as compared to contributing $108 million of cash flow during 2008. Increased collections of accounts receivable and reduced inventory levels (partially offset by reductions in accounts payable) associated with lower levels of business activity benefited cash flow in 2009 as compared to 2008. A decline of approximately $100 million in tax payments during 2009 as compared to 2008 also partially offset the decline in operating cash flow. In connection with the Companys restructuring activities, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing facilities, severing personnel and, in connection with acquisitions, integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with these activities. During 2010, the Company paid approximately $110 million related to its 2009 restructuring activities. During 2009, the Company paid approximately $161 million related to its 2009 and 2008 restructuring activities and approximately $29 million related to restructuring activities associated with acquisitions completed prior to December 31, 2008. Please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these expenditures. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 billion during 2010 compared to $943 million of net cash used in 2009. Gross capital spending of $217 million during 2010 was approximately $29 million more than gross capital spending during 2009. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In 2011, the Company expects capital spending to approximate $250 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $943 million in 2009 compared to approximately $567 in 2008. Gross capital spending of $194 million in 2009 decreased approximately $5 million from 2008 capital spending levels. As discussed below, the Company completed numerous business acquisitions and divestitures during 2010, 2009 and 2008. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiple to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which the Company acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents 2010 Acquisitions and Apex Joint Venture For a discussion of the Companys 2010 acquisitions and the 2010 formation of the Apex joint venture, please refer to Overview Acquisitions; Joint Venture with Cooper Industries plc. 2009 Acquisitions/Divestitures The Company acquired fifteen businesses during 2009 for consideration of approximately $704 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these fifteen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $430 million. In addition, during 2009 the Company divested five businesses or product lines for approximately $10 million of net cash proceeds. The divested businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies and the former Tools and Components segments and had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $53 million in 2009. The Company recorded no significant gain or loss, either individually or in the aggregate, associated with these divestitures. The Company used the proceeds from these sales for general corporate purposes. 2008 Acquisitions The Company acquired seventeen companies or product lines during 2008 for consideration of approximately $423 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired and $8 million of debt assumed. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These companies were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, excess tax benefits from stock based compensation, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $117 million during 2010 compared to $407 million of cash provided during 2009. The year over year change was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Notes (described below) during 2009 partially offset by lower repayments of borrowings during 2010 as compared to 2009. Total debt was $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $2.9 billion at December 31, 2009. The Companys debt as of December 31, 2010 was as follows: $180 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $669 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (Eurobond Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (2018 Notes); $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.4% Senior Notes due 2019 (2019 Notes); $573 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $152 million of other borrowings. 50 Table of Contents For additional details regarding the Companys debt as of December 31, 2010, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except in connection with the change of control provisions described as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of the 2018 Notes and 2019 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. The Companys outstanding indentures and comparable instruments also contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. For a discussion of the risks related to our indebtedness, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility The Company satisfies its short term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro denominated commercial paper. Under the Companys U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the Credit Facilities (described below) provide credit support for the program, the $1.525 billion of availability under the Credit Facilities has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $1.525 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company classifies the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.45 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) with a syndicate of banks that expires on April 25, 2012 and an unsecured $75 million multicurrency revolving credit facility that expires on May 3, 2011 (the Supplemental Credit Facility and together with the Credit Facility, the Credit Facilities). The Credit Facilities can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Under the Credit Facility, interest is based on, at the Companys option (1) a LIBOR based formula that is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, (2) a formula based on the higher (as of the date of determination) of Bank of Americas prime rate or the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. Under the Supplemental Credit Facility, interest is based on, at the Companys option (1) a LIBOR based formula, or (2) a formula based on the highest (as of the date of determination) of the lenders prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points or the LIBOR rate plus 100 basis points. Both of the Credit Facilities require the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus stockholders equity) as of the last day of each quarter of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. As of December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The availability of the Credit Facilities as standby liquidity facilities to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of our commercial paper program. We expect to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facilities to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facilities so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. The Company anticipates seeking a renewal of the term of the Supplemental Credit Facility from the lender prior to its scheduled expiration. During 2010, the Company refinanced balances under its commercial paper program as they came due to maintain an outstanding balance throughout the year. Amounts outstanding under the Companys U.S. dollar commercial paper program as of December 31, 2010 had a weighted average interest rate of 0.25% and a weighted average maturity of approximately 11 days. The Company had no outstanding Euro denominated commercial paper as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and our Credit Facilities to provide short term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our Credit Facilities could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. 51 Table of Contents In addition to the Credit Facilities, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. Other Long Term Indebtedness In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.40% senior unsecured notes due 2019. The notes were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $745 million. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper with the balance of the net proceeds used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 40 basis points. In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points. On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2010, an aggregate of approximately 2.4 million shares of Danaher common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. From January 1, 2011 through February 11, 2011, holders of certain of the Companys Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of approximately 5.2 million shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of December 31, 2010, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of approximately $13 thousand being redeemed by the Company for cash. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $2.1 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2010. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. 52 Table of Contents Shelf Registration Statement The Company has a well known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from future securities sales off this shelf for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include, but are not limited to, reduction or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations; acquisitions; capital expenditures; share repurchases and dividends; and working capital. Stock Repurchase Program On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions (which repurchase program replaces the repurchase program that was authorized by the Board in April 2005). There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. The Company did not repurchase any shares of Company common stock during 2010 or 2009. During 2008, the Company repurchased 2.76 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $74 million, under the Companys prior stock repurchase program. The 2008 repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. As of December 31, 2010, 20 million shares remain available for repurchase pursuant to this program. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company declared a regular dividend of $0.02 per share that was paid on January 28, 2011 to holders of record on December 31, 2010. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2010 were approximately $52 million. Cash and Cash Requirements The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its existing commercial paper programs or the Credit Facilities, enter into new credit facilities in order to expand borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and issue commercial paper in amounts in excess of the programs current capacity and or access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. We also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an average weighted annual interest rate of 0.4%. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world. At December 31, 2010, approximately $1.4 billion of the Companys cash and cash equivalents was held outside the United States. Most of the cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States although under current law would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, intra company financing is used to provide working capital to the Companys operations. 53 Table of Contents During 2010, the Company contributed $90 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $33 million to its non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2011, the Companys cash contribution requirements are expected to be approximately $50 million for its U.S. plan, although the ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. The Company expects to contribute approximately $27 million in employer contributions and unfunded benefit payments to the non U.S. defined benefit plans in 2011. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $389 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Total LessThanOneYear 1 3 Years 3 5Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 2,799.2 $ 38.3 $ 915.5 $ 4.2 $ 1,825.4 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 25.5 2.5 8.0 7.2 23.6 Total Long Term Debt 2,824.7 40.8 923.5 11.4 1,849.0 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations (c) 833.3 106.3 207.6 145.6 373.8 Operating Lease Obligations (d) 463.8 124.8 165.7 94.3 79.0 Other: Purchase Obligations (e) 654.9 535.7 67.2 2.8 49.2 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (f) 1,845.6 574.7 398.1 872.8 Total $ 6,622.3 $ 807.6 $ 1,938.7 $ 652.2 $ 3,223.8 (a) As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) Interest payments on long term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2010. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. (d) As described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the schedule above. (e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. 54 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2010. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period ($ in millions) TotalAmountsCommitted LessThanOneYear 1 3Years 4 5Years MoreThan5Years Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 305.2 $ 88.4 $ 164.8 $ 29.9 $ 22.1 Guarantees 68.7 30.3 10.7 2.0 25.7 Total $ 373.9 $ 118.7 $ 175.5 $ 31.9 $ 47.8 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components and for performance under specific sales agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and financing counterparties and governmental entities. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe that any such liability will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Companys products or claims alleging that Company products infringe third party intellectual property. The Company cannot estimate its maximum exposure under these indemnification provisions and has not accrued any liabilities in its consolidated financial statements or included any indemnification provisions in our contractual commitments table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danahers Amended and Restated By laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters. 55 Table of Contents In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive and consequential, as well as compensatory damages. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position or results of operations. While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. For general and products liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a reserve for these contingencies. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk insurance professionals where appropriate. In addition, outside risk insurance professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. Reserve estimates are adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. The Company believes the liability recorded for such contingencies as of December 31, 2010 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the Companys self insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self insurance and litigation liability. For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 56 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made, and (2) material changes in the estimates are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net income. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent managements best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Companys trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios based on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on previously written off accounts increase the allowances. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional reserves would be required. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does amortize certain identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, over the estimated useful life of the identified asset. On an annual basis (the first day of the Companys fiscal fourth quarter) the Company estimates the fair value of each of its reporting units and compares the fair value of each unit to its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting units goodwill has been impaired. If circumstances or events prior to the date of the required annual assessment indicate that, in managements judgment, it is more likely than not that there has been diminution of fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, the Company performs an impairment analysis at the time of such circumstance or event. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on EBITDA multiples determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Companys reporting units in addition to market available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data. The Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach in certain circumstances. Once completed, the results of the income and market approaches are reconciled and compared. The 57 Table of Contents discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, if actual results are not consistent with managements estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 27 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from approximately $6.6 million to approximately $2.1 billion. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2010 indicated that in all instances, the fair value of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 16% to approximately 617%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units ranged from approximately 4% to approximately 545%. Contingent Liabilities. As discussed above under Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under Legal Proceedings. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Revenue Recognition: The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectibility of the balance must be reasonably assured. See Note 1 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys revenue recognition policies. Although most of the sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for sales recognition purposes, and, if so, how the sales price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize sales for each element. For delivered elements, sales are recognized only when the delivered elements have standalone value, fair values of undelivered elements are known, there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the sales recognized for delivered elements. Share Based Compensation: The Company accounts for share based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For a discussion of the Companys share based compensation accounting practices, please see Note 16 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based payment awards represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, the Companys equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If the Companys actual forfeiture rate during a reporting period is materially different than its estimate, the Companys earnings may be significantly impacted as the Company records the effect of actual experience in the period it occurs. 58 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are entitled to health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company measures its pension and post retirement plans assets and obligations as of the end of each year to determine the funded status of each plan. The Company recognizes an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status in its statement of financial position. Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and are reported in comprehensive income. Accounting standards require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans be computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, changes in the assumptions (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the U.S. plan, the Company used a 5.2% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2010, which represents a decrease of 55 basis points in the discount rate from December 31, 2009. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the U.S. and non U.S. net obligation by $59 million ($40 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2010. For 2010, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the U.S. plan has been estimated at 8%. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2010 would have increased $5 million (or $3 million on an after tax basis). The Companys non U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.20% for 2010 and ranged from 0.75% to 8.0% for 2009. For a discussion of the Companys 2010 and anticipated 2011 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Requirements. Income Taxes: The Companys income tax expense represents the current tax liability for the year and the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Companys tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Judgment is required in estimating valuation allowances. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies, and can also be impacted by changes to tax laws. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Companys tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by recognizing the financial statement effects of a tax position only when, based upon the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company generally re evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and recognizes an uncertain tax benefit when (i) there is completion of tax audit; (ii) there is a change in applicable tax law including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) there is an expiration of the statute of limitations. 59 Table of Contents An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0 percent would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 of approximately $23 million. New Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. This ASU establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for arrangements including multiple revenue generating activities and provides amendments to the criteria for separating deliverables and measuring and allocating arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting. The amendments also establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. Significantly enhanced disclosures are also required to provide information about a vendors multiple deliverable revenue arrangements, including information about the nature and terms, significant deliverables, and its performance within arrangements. The amendments also require providing information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and about how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Concurrent with the issuance of ASU No. 2009 13, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. This ASU changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements that are essential to the functionality, and scopes these products out of current software revenue guidance. The new guidance includes factors to help companies determine what software elements are considered essential to the functionality. The amendments will now subject software enabled products to other revenue guidance and disclosure requirements, such as guidance surrounding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the provisions of these updated accounting standards related to revenue recognition associated with contractual arrangements involving multiple elements and contractual arrangements involving tangible products that include software. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the effect of adopting these standards on future financial periods as the impact will vary depending on the nature and volume of new or materially modified transactions in any given period. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 60 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Danahers financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Estimates OVERVIEW General Please see Item 1. Business General for a discussion of Danahers objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2010, approximately 55% of Danahers sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry specific economic and political factors. For example, in those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Companys customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy. Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its products and services, typically helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of our geographic and industry diversity we face a variety of challenges and opportunities, including rapid technological development in most of our served markets, the expansion of opportunities in emerging markets, trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force and consolidation of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and our long term growth and profitability will depend in particular on our ability to expand our business (including through geographical and product line expansion), identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of our sales force and continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality. We are making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in our served markets and to globalize our manufacturing, research and development and customer facing resources (particularly in emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil) in order to improve the efficiency of our operations and be responsive to our customers throughout the world. Business Performance and Outlook While differences exist among the Companys businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Companys products and services increased substantially in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulting in aggregate year over year sales growth. The growth in sales is due in part to the stabilization in global economic conditions that began in the fourth quarter 2009, easier year over year comparisons resulting from the recessionary economic conditions that prevailed during most of 2009, investments made in sales growth initiatives and other business specific factors discussed below. Year over year sales growth rates during 2010 were led by emerging markets, with particular strength in China. North America and Europe also grew on a year over year basis, but at a lesser rate than the emerging markets. Providing no significant deterioration in general economic conditions occurs, the Company expects sales to continue to grow on a year over year basis during 2011 but at a moderating rate from that experienced during 2010 due primarily to more difficult year over year comparisons. 31 Table of Contents Acquisitions; Joint Venture with Cooper Industries plc On January 30, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which includes a 50% ownership position in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex joint venture (AB Sciex) and a 100% ownership position in the Molecular Devices business (Molecular Devices). In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. The aggregate purchase price for the combined transactions was $1.1 billion, including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. The aggregate sales of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in their last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition were approximately $650 million and these businesses now operate within the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices significantly expand the Companys position in the life sciences and diagnostics business and in particular establish a position in the mass spectrometry market. AB Sciex is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities in the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment, both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. Company management and other personnel are devoting significant resources to the successful integration of the acquired businesses into Danaher. In addition to the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, the Company acquired 17 businesses during 2010 for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. These businesses were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement, Dental, Environmental and Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these 17 acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $440 million. On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (Cooper), combining certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex). The 2009 sales, on a combined basis, of the two tools businesses contributed to Apex were approximately $1.2 billion. Each of Cooper and the Company owns a 50% interest in Apex and has an equal number of representatives on Apexs Board of Directors. Upon the closing of the transaction, Apex simultaneously obtained a credit facility and term debt financing and used $45 million of the term debt financing to purchase from the Company certain assets of the Companys hand tools business. In addition to the cash received for the purchase of these assets, the Company recorded a receivable from Apex of $45 million upon closing. Subsequent to the formation of the joint venture, the Company collected $11.3 million from Apex related to the receivable and expects to the collect the balance in 2011. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated the financial results of its contributed businesses and began accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. In accordance with accounting standards applicable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries, the Company recognized a $291 million gain ($232.2 million or $0.34 per diluted share on an after tax basis) during the third quarter 2010 associated with the transaction reflecting the difference between the book value of the contributed business that was deconsolidated and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, including the 50% interest in Apex and the cash and receivables received from Apex in connection with the transaction. Recent Acquisition and Divestiture Developments In January 2011, the Company announced that it has agreed to sell its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business for a sale price of $685 million in cash. This business, which is part of the Industrial Technologies segment and supplies safety, security and electric power components to commercial and military aerospace markets globally, had annual revenues of $378 million in 2010. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to the business, and is expected to close in the first half of 2011. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company expects to report an after tax gain on the sale of approximately $200 million or $0.29 per diluted share. The Company committed to sell the business subsequent to the end of 2010 and will be reporting the business as a discontinued operation in future filings. Also in January 2011, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market, for a purchase price of approximately 350 million ($470 million based on exchange rates on the date of the agreement), net of cash acquired. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals 32 Table of Contents and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to EskoArtwork, and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011. EskoArtworks suite of software and hardware solutions helps its customers reduce digital design cycle time and ensure integrity throughout the packaging material supply chain. EskoArtwork had revenues of $247 million (based on exchange rates at December 31, 2010) in its most recent completed fiscal year and is expected to become part of the Companys product identification platform included in the Industrial Technologies segment. On February 6, 2011, the Company and Beckman Coulter, Inc. entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which the Company is making a cash tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter for $83.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6.8 billion including debt assumed and net of cash acquired, to be followed by a second step cash out merger at the offer price. The offer is subject to customary conditions, including tender of a majority of the outstanding shares (on a fully diluted basis) into the offer, receipt of applicable regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to Beckman Coulter. The Company anticipates completing the offer in the first half of 2011. Beckman Coulter develops, manufactures and markets products that simplify, automate and innovate complex biomedical testing. Its diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and produce information used by physicians to diagnose disease, make treatment decisions and monitor patients. Scientists use its life science research instruments to study complex biological problems including causes of disease and potential new therapies or drugs. Beckman Coulter had revenues of approximately $3.7 billion in 2010, and would become part of the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The Company anticipates financing the acquisition of Beckman Coulter through a combination of available cash, proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and proceeds from the issuance of securities. The Company may also enter into one or more additional credit facilities in order to expand borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and issue commercial paper in amounts in excess of the programs current capacity, and may also enter into one or more bridge loan agreements to provide temporary financing pending the implementation of more permanent financing arrangements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 18.0% compared to 2009. Sales from existing businesses increased 11.5% on a year over year basis. The impact of currency translation decreased reported sales by 0.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly stronger against other major currencies during 2010 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2009. Acquired businesses provided sales growth of approximately 7.0%. In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales calculated according to GAAP but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses, (2) second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture, and (3) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition. The portion of sales attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period to period change in sales (excluding sales from acquired businesses and second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) and (b) the period to period change in sales (excluding the same items) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under managements control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends. The Company excludes the effect of the second half 2009 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture because as a result of application of the equity method of accounting beginning with the formation of the joint venture on July 4, 2010, the Company did not recognize sales from those businesses in the second half of 2010. Operating profit margins were 16.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 13.8% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons also benefited from approximately 160 basis points of incremental restructuring costs 33 Table of Contents incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. The favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies in the third quarter 2009 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses, 2009 divestitures and the operating profit margin impact of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by approximately 65 basis points. Acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in the comparable period of 2009) also adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. Operating profit margins were 13.8% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 14.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins during 2009 is primarily a result of lower sales volumes in 2009 compared to 2008, as well as restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the level incurred during 2008 which reduced operating profit margin comparisons by 115 basis points on a year over year basis. In addition, the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 20 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. The gain recognized during 2009 in connection with the Align litigation settlement also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. In addition, accounting charges recorded in 2008 associated with recording the fair value of inventory and deferred revenue acquired in connection with the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 10 basis points as such charges were greater in 2008 than 2009. Business Segments During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company changed the composition of its reportable segments to reflect changes in its internal organization resulting from the rate of growth within certain of the Companys businesses and the contribution of certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses to the Apex joint venture. The Company now reports results in five separate business segments consisting of the Test & Measurement; Environmental; Life Sciences & Diagnostics; Dental; and Industrial Technologies segments. In addition, the historical results of the hand tool businesses contributed to Apex and the Companys equity in earnings of the Apex joint venture will be shown separately in the Companys segment disclosures. The Company previously reported its operations under four segments: Professional Instrumentation; Medical Technologies; Industrial Technologies; and Tools & Components. The table below summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Test & Measurement $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 $ 2,805.0 Environmental 2,738.0 2,418.7 2,413.2 Life Sciences & Diagnostics 2,298.3 1,484.9 1,481.5 Dental 1,824.6 1,657.0 1,795.5 Industrial Technologies 3,193.2 2,795.1 3,471.0 Businesses contributed to Apex joint venture 315.6 607.9 731.3 Total $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 TEST & MEASUREMENT The Companys Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic products, network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Also included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Companys mobile tool and wheel service businesses. 34 Table of Contents Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 $ 2,805.0 Operating profit 572.9 301.4 490.4 Depreciation and amortization 107.8 93.5 90.6 Restructuring and other related charges 67.7 10.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.2 % 13.6 % 17.5 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.8 % 4.2 % 3.2 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 3.0 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 17.0 % (22.0 %) Acquisitions 10.5 % 2.0 % Currency exchange rates (1.0 %) Total 27.5 % (21.0 %) 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 During 2010, demand increased significantly for the business core instruments, including oscilloscopes, thermography products and digital multi meters. Sales were strong in all major geographies, with particular strength in China. In addition, distributor inventory reductions that occurred in the first three quarters of 2009 due to the recessionary economic conditions did not continue into 2010 which positively impacted the year over year comparisons. Sales from existing businesses in the segments network and communication businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 on a year over year basis driven by strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Operating profit margins increased 660 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 265 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. Acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points as such charges were greater in 2009 than in 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 130 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Soft demand across all instrumentation related product lines, attributable to general economic conditions and inventory reductions by distributors, drove sales declines from existing businesses during 2009. Year over year price increases of 1.5% partially offset the sales decline during 2009. While year over year sales declined during each quarter during 2009, the rate of decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year primarily due to the adverse impact of inventory level reductions in the distribution channel that were largely completed by the end of the third quarter. Year over year comparisons for the fourth quarter were also 35 Table of Contents favorably impacted by the decline in demand that commenced in the fourth quarter 2008 resulting in an easier comparison. Sales declined in all significant geographic regions. Year over year sales in the network and communication businesses declined at a lower rate than the instrumentation business primarily as a result of positive performance in the network management solutions businesses which benefited from the competition among mobile telecommunication providers to expand coverage, services and performance of their networks. Operating profit margins decreased 390 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes during 2009, as well as 230 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses also adversely impacted operating profit margins on a year over year basis by 35 basis points. Accounting charges incurred in 2008 associated with recording the fair value of inventory and deferred revenue acquired in connection with the November 2007 acquisition of Tektronix (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 120 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses also partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. ENVIRONMENTAL The Companys Environmental segment provides products that help protect our water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Danahers water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure, potable, and waste water in residential, commercial and industrial applications. Danahers retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market. Environmental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,738.0 $ 2,418.7 $ 2,413.2 Operating profit 564.3 471.0 477.3 Depreciation and amortization 45.9 43.1 41.5 Restructuring and other related charges 31.7 18.9 Operating profit as a % of sales 20.6 % 19.5 % 19.8 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.7 % 1.8 % 1.7 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.3 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 10.5 % (1.0 %) Acquisitions 3.0 % 3.5 % Currency exchange rates (0.5 %) (2.5 %) Total 13.0 % 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Sales grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 in both the water quality and retail petroleum equipment businesses. Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 36 Table of Contents Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Demand for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines was led by industrial markets and was stronger in all major geographies as compared to 2009. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a high single digit rate during 2010. Solid year over year growth in the product lines industrial and residential applications was partially offset by a difficult prior year comparison associated with a significant drinking water treatment project that favorably impacted revenues throughout 2009 and into the first half of 2010. Despite the difficult year over year comparison, underlying demand in the product lines municipal markets remains robust. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 due, in part, to continuing expansion of the chemical treatment solutions product line outside of the US market. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail petroleum equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Strong North American demand during 2010 for the business payment and point of sale retail solutions products was driven by enhanced industry standards deadlines and contributed significantly to the year over year sales growth. Demand for dispensing equipment also increased in all major geographic regions due to an increase in capital spending by customers. The business growth rate is expected to moderate in 2011 compared to 2010 as North American demand for payment and point of sale products is expected to moderate following the 2010 deadlines referenced above. Sales declines in the business vapor recovery product offerings in North America, primarily due to regulatory compliance deadlines in 2009 compared to 2010, partially offset these increases. Operating profit margins increased 110 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 100 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 55 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. Incremental year over year investments in 2010 associated with the segments emerging market growth initiatives also negatively impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Sales in the water quality businesses during 2009 were essentially flat on a year over year basis while sales in the retail petroleum equipment businesses declined as compared to 2008. Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses during 2009 were essentially flat as compared to 2008. A mid teens growth rate in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line and a mid single digit growth rate in the chemical treatment solutions product line along with year over year price increases of 2.0% offset low single digit sales declines in the business laboratory and process instrumentation product line. Growth rates in the ultraviolet water treatment product line reflected strength in demand for municipal wastewater applications, as well as shipments related to a significant drinking water treatment plant project that commenced in 2009. In the business laboratory and process instrumentation and consumable product line, general economic conditions adversely impacted demand in all major geographies with the exception of China, where revenues grew at a low double digit rate during 2009. Sales from existing businesses in the retail petroleum equipment business during 2009 declined at a low single digit rate as compared to 2008. Strong North American sales of the business point of sale retail and payment solution product offerings that were driven in part by regulatory requirements were more than offset by lower demand for dispensing equipment, primarily in Europe, and service offerings. Lower demand for the business automatic tank gauge product offerings and leak detection systems also adversely impacted year over year comparisons. The decline in demand for the business leak detection systems was partially attributable to a significant project in 2008 that did not repeat in 2009. Operating profit margins decreased 30 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes from existing businesses during 2009, as well as 45 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The dilutive effect of recently acquired 37 Table of Contents businesses also adversely impacted operating profit margins on a year over year basis by 50 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset the reductions in operating profit margins. LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS The Companys life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that are used by scientists to study cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of complex biological matters. The Companys diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that are used to diagnose disease, make treatment decisions and monitor patients in hospitals and other critical care settings. Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 2,298.3 $ 1,484.9 $ 1,481.5 Operating profit 227.9 179.6 193.2 Depreciation and amortization 90.7 56.6 53.7 Restructuring and other related charges 16.7 6.6 Operating profit as a % of sales 9.9 % 12.1 % 13.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.6 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.1 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 9.0 % (1.0 %) Acquisitions 46.0 % 3.5 % Currency exchange rates (2.5 %) Total 55.0 % 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 During 2010, sales from existing businesses grew in each of the segments businesses. Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of AB/Sciex and Molecular Devices in January 2010. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due primarily to strong demand in all major geographies for a new version of the business compact blood gas analyzer. Increased European demand for the business cardiac care instruments as well as continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life sciences instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared 2009. Year over year growth was driven primarily by strong demand in all major geographies for new instruments and consumables in the pathology diagnostics business. Increased sales of compound and stereo microscopy equipment serving the life sciences research and industrial markets also contributed to the growth. Japanese economic stimulus funding also positively impacted 2010 sales as purchases were required to be completed by March 2010 in order to be eligible for Japanese stimulus funding. 38 Table of Contents Operating profit margins decreased 220 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. Acquisition related charges during 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances, primarily related to the AB Sciex and Molecular Devices acquisitions, as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (in each case net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in the comparable period of 2009) adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 270 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 265 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 50 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 During 2009, sales growth in the segments acute care diagnostic and pathology diagnostic businesses was largely offset by sales declines in the segments life sciences instrumentation businesses. Price increases contributed 1.5% sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the acute care diagnostics business grew at a mid single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Continued strong aftermarket consumables sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation drove the majority of the growth during 2009. Increased sales of the business cardiac marking instrument also contributed to the year over year growth. Sales grew at a double digit rate in China and the emerging economies of Latin America during 2009, while combined Europe and North America sales were flat. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life science instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses declined at a low single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales growth attributable to pathology diagnostic instrumentation and associated consumable products, primarily outside of North America, was more than offset by sales declines attributable to lower demand for compound and stereo microscopy equipment primarily in Europe and North America. Lower demand for microscopy equipment resulted largely from lower capital spending in the Companys customer base throughout 2009. While year over year sales in the life sciences instrumentation business declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year as economic stimulus funding, primarily in Japan, began to favorably impact the business. Operating profit margins declined 90 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. Restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the levels incurred during 2008 reduced operating profit margins by 65 basis points on a year over year basis and the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 5 basis points. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 100 basis points. While the year over year sales declines diminished leverage of the segments fixed cost base, the 2009 cost savings attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses offset this adverse impact. DENTAL The Companys Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of equipment and consumables for the dental market, focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative solutions for dental professionals around the world. 39 Table of Contents Dental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 1,824.6 $ 1,657.0 $ 1,795.5 Operating profit before Align gain 203.3 130.8 177.3 Impact of Align gain 85.1 Total operating profit 203.3 215.9 177.3 Depreciation and amortization 81.7 71.3 69.8 Restructuring and other related charges 43.8 19.5 Operating profit as a % of sales 11.1 % 13.0 % 9.9 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.5 % 4.3 % 3.9 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.6 % 1.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 4.5 % (8.5 %) Acquisitions 6.5 % 3.0 % Currency exchange rates (1.0 %) (2.0 %) Total 10.0 % (7.5 %) 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental technologies businesses grew at a low double digit rate and increased in all major product categories during 2010 as compared to 2009. Growth was led by increased sales in the imaging product lines as a result of strong demand for 3D equipment and a recently introduced digital x ray sensor. Year over year demand also increased for the business instruments and treatment units. Imaging product sales were particularly strong in North America and Asia, while instrument and treatment unit sales were particularly strong in Europe. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses were essentially flat in 2010 as compared to 2009. Robust demand for orthodontia products throughout 2010 in addition to increased sales of infection control products were offset by weak demand for general dentistry consumables (primarily during the first three quarters of 2010) primarily as a result of adjustments to inventory levels in distribution channels that occurred during those periods. Demand in the general dentistry consumable businesses increased sequentially in the fourth quarter 2010 as inventories in the distribution channels returned to more normalized levels. Operating profit margins decreased 190 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in operating profit margins is largely due to the favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies that occurred in 2009 and adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 10 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes during 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 145 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Price increases contributed 1.0% sales growth during 2009 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 40 Table of Contents Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables business in 2009 were essentially flat as compared to 2008. Increased sales of orthodontia and infection control products during 2009 were offset by weaker demand for implants, endodontic products and general dentistry consumables. Lower capital spending by customers and inventory reductions in certain distribution channels drove year over year sales declines at a mid teen rate in the dental technologies businesses. While year over year sales in the dental technologies business declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved compared to the first three quarters of the year due to strong sales of treatment units in Europe, as well as easier year over year comparisons due to a large stocking order for imaging equipment that occurred in the third quarter 2008. Operating profit margins increased 310 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The gain recognized during 2009 in connection with the Align litigation settlement favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. Restructuring costs incurred during 2009 in excess of the levels incurred during 2008 reduced operating profit margins by 140 basis points on a year over year basis and the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 20 basis points. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 20 basis points. While the year over year sales declines diminished leverage of the segments fixed cost base, the 2009 cost savings attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset this adverse impact. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Companys Industrial Technologies segment manufactures products and sub systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines, as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment consists of two strategic lines of business, product identification and motion, as well as the sensors and controls, aerospace and defense and engine retarder businesses. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 3,193.2 $ 2,795.1 $ 3,471.0 Operating profit 630.1 400.2 551.1 Depreciation and amortization 60.3 61.3 68.4 Restructuring and other related charges 61.5 24.0 Operating profit as a % of sales 19.7 % 14.3 % 15.9 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.9 % 2.2 % 2.0 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.2 % 0.1 % Components of Sales Growth (Decline) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Existing businesses 13.5 % (17.0 %) Acquisitions 0.5 % 0.5 % Currency exchange rates (3.0 %) Total 14.0 % (19.5 %) 41 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a mid teens rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased demand for core marking and coding equipment as customers released capital spending that had been delayed from prior years. Strong consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies with particular strength in Europe and the emerging markets. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 as demand was strong in the majority of end markets served due primarily to the general economic recovery. While growth was generally broad based, industrial automation led the growth with strong sales of advanced motor and drive product offerings. Sales increased in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due to generally higher demand in most major end markets. Demand increased in the segments sensors and controls businesses and engine retarder business during 2010. Sales in the aerospace and defense businesses were essentially flat compared to 2009 as the aerospace end markets did not begin to recover from the recession until the second half of 2010. Operating profit margins increased 540 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 175 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The divestiture of certain lower margin businesses and product lines in the fourth quarter 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring activities also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 40 basis points. 2009 COMPARED TO 2008 Sales declines in a majority of the segments businesses during 2009 more than offset sales growth of approximately 1.5% related to price increases which are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses declined at a high single digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales declines during 2009 resulted primarily from weak demand for core marking and coding equipment due to lower capital spending by customers as a result of general economic conditions. Sales of consumable products associated with the businesses installed base of marking and coding equipment also declined on a year over year basis but not as significantly as equipment sales. During the fourth quarter of 2009, equipment sales increased on a year over year basis primarily due to emerging market growth. Flat consumable product sales in the fourth quarter of 2009 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 were an improvement compared to year over year consumable sales declines during the first three quarters of the year. Sales in the China market grew during the second half of 2009, resulting in low single digit sales growth for the full year. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses declined at double digit rates during 2009 as compared to 2008. Sales declined as a result of weak demand for most of the businesses product offerings attributable to the recessionary economic conditions that existed throughout 2009. While year over year sales in the motion businesses declined in each quarter during 2009, the rate of year over year decline during the fourth quarter of 2009 improved slightly compared to the second and third quarters of the year, due to improvements in demand for certain product offerings and the absence of inventory reductions experienced in early 2009 in the business distribution channels. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses declined at a low double digit rate during 2009 as compared to 2008. The Companys sensors and controls business saw modest improvement in certain end markets during the fourth quarter 2009 as compared to the first nine months of 2009. Demand in the Companys aerospace and defense businesses softened in the second half of 2009, however, primarily due to declines in demand in the commercial aviation end markets. Continued capital project freezes by the United States Postal Service contributed to year over year sales declines in the business integrated scanning system product line. 42 Table of Contents Operating profit margins in the segment declined 160 basis points in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating profit margins resulted primarily from lower sales volumes during 2009, as well as 75 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 compared to 2008. The impact of the new business combination accounting standard, requiring the expensing of transaction costs for pending and completed acquisitions after December 31, 2008, combined with the dilutive effect of recently acquired businesses, also reduced operating profit margins for 2009 by 10 basis points. Cost savings realized in 2009 attributable to the Companys 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities and ongoing efforts to reduce material costs and other operating expenses partially offset these negative factors. GROSS PROFIT For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 Cost of sales 6,575.8 5,904.7 6,757.3 Gross profit 6,626.8 5,280.2 5,940.2 Gross profit margin 50.2 % 47.2 % 46.8 % Gross profit margins for 2010 increased 300 basis points from 2009. The year over year increase reflects the impact of higher sales volumes as compared to 2009, year over year cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 95 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Gross profit margins during 2010 also benefited from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses that had lower average gross profit margins than the remainder of the Company. Acquisition related charges recorded in 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by approximately 30 basis points. Gross profit margins for 2009 increased 40 basis points from 2008. Cost savings related to 2008 and 2009 restructuring activities primarily drove the year over year improvements in gross profit margin from 2008 to 2009. Lower year over year commodity costs also contributed to the improvement, as costs for several types of raw materials increased sharply in 2008 before declining late in 2008 and into 2009. Lower overall sales volumes during 2009 as compared to 2008 diminished the leverage of the Companys fixed cost base and partially offset these positive factors. In addition, costs incurred associated with year over year incremental 2009 restructuring activities adversely impacted gross profit margins by 65 basis points. OPERATING EXPENSES For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Sales $ 13,202.6 $ 11,184.9 $ 12,697.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,673.7 3,190.2 3,345.3 Research and development expenses 809.5 632.7 725.4 SG&A as a % of sales 27.8 % 28.5 % 26.3 % R&D as a % of sales 6.1 % 5.7 % 5.7 % The year over year decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2010 reflects the benefit of increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2010 as compared to 2009 in addition to 65 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared 43 Table of Contents to 2010. Incremental year over year investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives, increased commission costs due to the higher sales volumes and the dilutive effect of certain recently acquired businesses and those businesses higher relative operating expense structures partially offset these year over year improvements. The year over year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2008 to 2009 is primarily due to reduced leverage of the Companys cost base caused by lower sales volumes during 2009 as compared to 2008. Incremental year over year costs associated with 2009 restructuring activities adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales by 50 basis points on a year over year basis, although the 2008 and 2009 restructuring actions generated year over year cost savings that partially offset these negative factors. Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased 40 basis points during 2010 on a year over year basis. The increase is primarily attributable to the contribution of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture, as the research and development spending of such businesses has historically been less than the Company average. Overall research and development costs also increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to recently acquired businesses, primarily AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales were flat during 2009 as compared to 2008. The Company continued to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses. EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE As previously discussed, in July, 2010 the Company closed on the formation of the Apex joint venture. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated its contributed businesses and commenced accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. As a result of the Companys continuing involvement with the joint venture, the contributed businesses are not presented as a discontinued operation. The equity in the earnings of Apex, reflecting the Companys 50% ownership position subsequent to the formation, is reflected in the Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture caption in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The impact on the Companys results of operations from (1) the contributed business prior to the formation of Apex, and (2) the Companys equity in the earnings of Apex subsequent to the formation of Apex, is reflected in the table below ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Prior to formation of Apex Sales $ 315.6 $ 607.9 $ 731.3 Operating profit 41.5 63.9 68.2 Subsequent to formation of Apex Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture 22.8 INTEREST EXPENSE AND INCOME For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $121 million in 2010 was essentially flat as compared to 2009. Interest expense of $123 million in 2009 was $7.5 million lower than 2008 primarily as a result of lower average debt levels during 2009 as the Company deployed cash flows to repay a portion of its commercial paper borrowings. Interest attributable to the $750 million principal amount of 5.40% senior unsecured notes issued in March 2009 partially offset the positive impact of the reduction in outstanding commercial paper borrowings. 44 Table of Contents The Company recognized interest income of $6 million, $5 million and $10 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest income in 2010 was higher than interest income in 2009 due to higher average invested cash balances. Interest income in 2009 was lower than interest income in 2008 as the lower interest rates on deposits in 2009 compared to 2008 more than offset higher average invested cash balances. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect managements assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Companys financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period to period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. The Companys effective tax rate for 2010 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $6.5 billion. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the expiration of statutes of limitation, reserves are adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 23.5%, 19.2% and 24.7%, respectively. The Companys 2010 effective tax rate of 23.5% reflects the benefit of earnings outside the United States taxed at rates lower than the U.S. Federal income tax rate. The 2010 effective tax rate includes the benefit of approximately 50 basis points ($11.5 million, or $0.02 per diluted share) of discrete tax reserve reductions associated with resolution of certain international and domestic tax positions and refinements of reserve estimates related to prior period tax contingencies. The Companys tax provision was reduced by approximately $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 as a result of the extension of the research and experimentation credit and other U.S. legislation enacted in December 2010 related to taxation of international earnings. The Companys 2009 effective tax rate of 19.2% includes the impact of approximately 680 basis points ($97.2 million, or $0.15 per diluted share) related to gains from the net reduction of reserves associated with the resolution of uncertain tax positions and discrete items. The impact of expensing transaction costs (in accordance with the business combination accounting standard that became effective at the beginning of 2009), much of which are not deductible for income tax purposes, partially offset these beneficial factors. The effective tax rate for 2011 is expected to be approximately 25.5%. The anticipated increase from the 2010 rate is largely attributable to recent U.S. legislation effective as of the beginning of 2011 that repealed or modified certain tax provisions applicable to U.S. companies having international operations that enable the use of foreign tax credits to offset U.S. corporate income taxes. 45 Table of Contents INFLATION The effect of broad based inflation on the Companys operations was not significant in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. Interest Rate Risk A change in interest rates on long term debt impacts the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt but not our earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2010, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from its underlying common stock) by approximately $105 million. However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Companys fixed rate long term debt does not affect the Companys results of operations or stockholders equity. As of December 31, 2010, the Companys variable rate debt obligations relate primarily to U.S. dollar commercial paper borrowings, and as a result its primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2010. As these obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2010, a 100% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $0.4 million. A 100% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2010. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. The Eurobond Notes described below (which as of December 31, 2010 had outstanding borrowings in principal amount equivalent to $669 million) provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Companys net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes, is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2010 (net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes) would result in a reduction of stockholders equity of approximately $450 million. The Company also faces exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its costs are incurred, and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. 46 Table of Contents Currency exchange rates decreased reported 2010 sales by 0.5% on a year over year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly stronger against other major currencies during 2010 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2009. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar that began in the second quarter 2010 and prevailed throughout most of the remainder of 2010 more than offset the U.S. dollars weakness against other major currencies during the first quarter of 2010. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2010 prevail throughout 2011, currency exchange rates will positively impact 2011 reported sales by approximately 1.0% relative to the Companys performance in 2010. Weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would have a further positive impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Companys sales and results of operations on an overall basis. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Companys businesses perform ongoing credit evaluations of their customers financial conditions and typically obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. Equity Price Risk The Companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Companys available for sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2010 would have reduced the fair value of the Companys available for sale investment portfolio by approximately $26 million. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, please see Item 1. Materials. 47 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses and strategic acquisitions and maintain its capital structure on a short and long term basis. For a discussion of risks related to the uncertainty in the financial markets and the global economy in general, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity ($ in millions) For the Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Operating cash flows $ 2,084.4 $ 1,800.8 $ 1,859.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (217.3 ) (188.5 ) (193.8 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (2,129.7 ) (703.5 ) (423.2 ) Cash paid for other investments (66.8 ) Other sources 58.1 15.9 49.6 Net cash used in investing activities (2,288.9 ) (942.9 ) (567.4 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 178.4 174.2 82.4 Debt repayments, net of new borrowings (excluding March 2009 public debt offering) (9.4 ) (469.9 ) (1,092.3 ) Proceeds of March 2009 public debt offering 744.6 Purchase of treasury stock (74.2 ) Payment of dividends (52.2 ) (41.7 ) (38.2 ) Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities 116.8 407.2 (1,122.3 ) Operating cash flow, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $284 million, or approximately 16%, during 2010 as compared to 2009. Funding for acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during 2010. The Company acquired 19 businesses during 2010. Total consideration paid for these acquisitions was approximately $2.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The Company repaid approximately $9 million of debt (net of new borrowings) during 2010. The Companys restructuring activities used approximately $110 million in cash during 2010. The Company contributed approximately $90 million in cash to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $33 million to the Companys non U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents. 48 Table of Contents Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flow was approximately $2.1 billion for 2010, an increase of $284 million, or 16% as compared to 2009. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the increase in earnings in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting this benefit was an investment in trade accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable which in the aggregate used $204 million of cash flow during 2010 as compared to contributing $228 million of cash flow during 2009. The increased use of cash reflects increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, partially offset by increased accounts payable levels, associated with increased business activity. Operating cash flow was approximately $1.8 billion for 2009, a decrease of $58 million, or approximately 3% as compared to 2008. The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the decrease in earnings in 2009 as compared to 2008 and to a lesser extent attributable to the year over year incremental amount of cash paid related to the Companys restructuring activities. In addition, the Company voluntarily contributed $60 million to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2009 while it made no contribution in 2008. The declines in operating cash flow were partially offset by cash generated from the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable which contributed $228 million of cash flow during 2009 as compared to contributing $108 million of cash flow during 2008. Increased collections of accounts receivable and reduced inventory levels (partially offset by reductions in accounts payable) associated with lower levels of business activity benefited cash flow in 2009 as compared to 2008. A decline of approximately $100 million in tax payments during 2009 as compared to 2008 also partially offset the decline in operating cash flow. In connection with the Companys restructuring activities, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing facilities, severing personnel and, in connection with acquisitions, integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with these activities. During 2010, the Company paid approximately $110 million related to its 2009 restructuring activities. During 2009, the Company paid approximately $161 million related to its 2009 and 2008 restructuring activities and approximately $29 million related to restructuring activities associated with acquisitions completed prior to December 31, 2008. Please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these expenditures. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 billion during 2010 compared to $943 million of net cash used in 2009. Gross capital spending of $217 million during 2010 was approximately $29 million more than gross capital spending during 2009. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In 2011, the Company expects capital spending to approximate $250 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $943 million in 2009 compared to approximately $567 in 2008. Gross capital spending of $194 million in 2009 decreased approximately $5 million from 2008 capital spending levels. As discussed below, the Company completed numerous business acquisitions and divestitures during 2010, 2009 and 2008. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Companys financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect a number of factors including the future earnings and cash flow potential of these businesses; the multiple to earnings, cash flow and other factors at which similar businesses have been purchased by other acquirers; the competitive nature of the process by which the Company acquired the business; and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents 2010 Acquisitions and Apex Joint Venture For a discussion of the Companys 2010 acquisitions and the 2010 formation of the Apex joint venture, please refer to Overview Acquisitions; Joint Venture with Cooper Industries plc. 2009 Acquisitions/Divestitures The Company acquired fifteen businesses during 2009 for consideration of approximately $704 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these fifteen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $430 million. In addition, during 2009 the Company divested five businesses or product lines for approximately $10 million of net cash proceeds. The divested businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies and the former Tools and Components segments and had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $53 million in 2009. The Company recorded no significant gain or loss, either individually or in the aggregate, associated with these divestitures. The Company used the proceeds from these sales for general corporate purposes. 2008 Acquisitions The Company acquired seventeen companies or product lines during 2008 for consideration of approximately $423 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired and $8 million of debt assumed. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These companies were acquired to complement existing units of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, excess tax benefits from stock based compensation, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $117 million during 2010 compared to $407 million of cash provided during 2009. The year over year change was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Notes (described below) during 2009 partially offset by lower repayments of borrowings during 2010 as compared to 2009. Total debt was $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $2.9 billion at December 31, 2009. The Companys debt as of December 31, 2010 was as follows: $180 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $669 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (Eurobond Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (2018 Notes); $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.4% Senior Notes due 2019 (2019 Notes); $573 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $152 million of other borrowings. 50 Table of Contents For additional details regarding the Companys debt as of December 31, 2010, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except in connection with the change of control provisions described as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of the 2018 Notes and 2019 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. The Companys outstanding indentures and comparable instruments also contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. For a discussion of the risks related to our indebtedness, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility The Company satisfies its short term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro denominated commercial paper. Under the Companys U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the Credit Facilities (described below) provide credit support for the program, the $1.525 billion of availability under the Credit Facilities has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $1.525 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company classifies the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.45 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) with a syndicate of banks that expires on April 25, 2012 and an unsecured $75 million multicurrency revolving credit facility that expires on May 3, 2011 (the Supplemental Credit Facility and together with the Credit Facility, the Credit Facilities). The Credit Facilities can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Under the Credit Facility, interest is based on, at the Companys option (1) a LIBOR based formula that is dependent in part on the Companys credit rating, (2) a formula based on the higher (as of the date of determination) of Bank of Americas prime rate or the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. Under the Supplemental Credit Facility, interest is based on, at the Companys option (1) a LIBOR based formula, or (2) a formula based on the highest (as of the date of determination) of the lenders prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points or the LIBOR rate plus 100 basis points. Both of the Credit Facilities require the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus stockholders equity) as of the last day of each quarter of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. As of December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The availability of the Credit Facilities as standby liquidity facilities to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of our commercial paper program. We expect to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facilities to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facilities so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. The Company anticipates seeking a renewal of the term of the Supplemental Credit Facility from the lender prior to its scheduled expiration. During 2010, the Company refinanced balances under its commercial paper program as they came due to maintain an outstanding balance throughout the year. Amounts outstanding under the Companys U.S. dollar commercial paper program as of December 31, 2010 had a weighted average interest rate of 0.25% and a weighted average maturity of approximately 11 days. The Company had no outstanding Euro denominated commercial paper as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and our Credit Facilities to provide short term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our Credit Facilities could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. 51 Table of Contents In addition to the Credit Facilities, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. Other Long Term Indebtedness In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.40% senior unsecured notes due 2019. The notes were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $745 million. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper with the balance of the net proceeds used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 40 basis points. In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points. On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2010, an aggregate of approximately 2.4 million shares of Danaher common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. From January 1, 2011 through February 11, 2011, holders of certain of the Companys Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of approximately 5.2 million shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of December 31, 2010, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on January 22, 2011, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of approximately $13 thousand being redeemed by the Company for cash. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $2.1 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2010. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. 52 Table of Contents Shelf Registration Statement The Company has a well known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from future securities sales off this shelf for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include, but are not limited to, reduction or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations; acquisitions; capital expenditures; share repurchases and dividends; and working capital. Stock Repurchase Program On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions (which repurchase program replaces the repurchase program that was authorized by the Board in April 2005). There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. The Company did not repurchase any shares of Company common stock during 2010 or 2009. During 2008, the Company repurchased 2.76 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $74 million, under the Companys prior stock repurchase program. The 2008 repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. As of December 31, 2010, 20 million shares remain available for repurchase pursuant to this program. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company declared a regular dividend of $0.02 per share that was paid on January 28, 2011 to holders of record on December 31, 2010. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2010 were approximately $52 million. Cash and Cash Requirements The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its existing commercial paper programs or the Credit Facilities, enter into new credit facilities in order to expand borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and issue commercial paper in amounts in excess of the programs current capacity and or access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. We also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. As of December 31, 2010, the Company held $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an average weighted annual interest rate of 0.4%. The Companys cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world. At December 31, 2010, approximately $1.4 billion of the Companys cash and cash equivalents was held outside the United States. Most of the cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States although under current law would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, intra company financing is used to provide working capital to the Companys operations. 53 Table of Contents During 2010, the Company contributed $90 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $33 million to its non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2011, the Companys cash contribution requirements are expected to be approximately $50 million for its U.S. plan, although the ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. The Company expects to contribute approximately $27 million in employer contributions and unfunded benefit payments to the non U.S. defined benefit plans in 2011. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $389 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Total LessThanOneYear 1 3 Years 3 5Years MoreThan5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 2,799.2 $ 38.3 $ 915.5 $ 4.2 $ 1,825.4 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 25.5 2.5 8.0 7.2 23.6 Total Long Term Debt 2,824.7 40.8 923.5 11.4 1,849.0 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations (c) 833.3 106.3 207.6 145.6 373.8 Operating Lease Obligations (d) 463.8 124.8 165.7 94.3 79.0 Other: Purchase Obligations (e) 654.9 535.7 67.2 2.8 49.2 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (f) 1,845.6 574.7 398.1 872.8 Total $ 6,622.3 $ 807.6 $ 1,938.7 $ 652.2 $ 3,223.8 (a) As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. (c) Interest payments on long term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2010. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. (d) As described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the schedule above. (e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. 54 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2010. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period ($ in millions) TotalAmountsCommitted LessThanOneYear 1 3Years 4 5Years MoreThan5Years Standby Letters of Credit and Performance Bonds $ 305.2 $ 88.4 $ 164.8 $ 29.9 $ 22.1 Guarantees 68.7 30.3 10.7 2.0 25.7 Total $ 373.9 $ 118.7 $ 175.5 $ 31.9 $ 47.8 Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Companys obligations under short term contracts to purchase raw materials and components and for performance under specific sales agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and financing counterparties and governmental entities. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe that any such liability will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Companys products or claims alleging that Company products infringe third party intellectual property. The Company cannot estimate its maximum exposure under these indemnification provisions and has not accrued any liabilities in its consolidated financial statements or included any indemnification provisions in our contractual commitments table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. The Companys Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danahers Amended and Restated By laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters. 55 Table of Contents In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive and consequential, as well as compensatory damages. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position or results of operations. While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. For general and products liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a reserve for these contingencies. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk insurance professionals where appropriate. In addition, outside risk insurance professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. Reserve estimates are adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. The Company believes the liability recorded for such contingencies as of December 31, 2010 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the Companys self insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self insurance and litigation liability. For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 56 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made, and (2) material changes in the estimates are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the provision for credit losses and, therefore, net income. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent managements best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Companys trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios based on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on previously written off accounts increase the allowances. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional reserves would be required. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does amortize certain identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, over the estimated useful life of the identified asset. On an annual basis (the first day of the Companys fiscal fourth quarter) the Company estimates the fair value of each of its reporting units and compares the fair value of each unit to its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting units goodwill has been impaired. If circumstances or events prior to the date of the required annual assessment indicate that, in managements judgment, it is more likely than not that there has been diminution of fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, the Company performs an impairment analysis at the time of such circumstance or event. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on EBITDA multiples determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Companys reporting units in addition to market available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data. The Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach in certain circumstances. Once completed, the results of the income and market approaches are reconciled and compared. The 57 Table of Contents discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, if actual results are not consistent with managements estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 27 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from approximately $6.6 million to approximately $2.1 billion. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2010 indicated that in all instances, the fair value of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 16% to approximately 617%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units ranged from approximately 4% to approximately 545%. Contingent Liabilities. As discussed above under Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under Legal Proceedings. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Revenue Recognition: The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectibility of the balance must be reasonably assured. See Note 1 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys revenue recognition policies. Although most of the sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for sales recognition purposes, and, if so, how the sales price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize sales for each element. For delivered elements, sales are recognized only when the delivered elements have standalone value, fair values of undelivered elements are known, there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance and there are no customer negotiated refund or return rights affecting the sales recognized for delivered elements. Share Based Compensation: The Company accounts for share based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For a discussion of the Companys share based compensation accounting practices, please see Note 16 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based payment awards represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, the Companys equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If the Companys actual forfeiture rate during a reporting period is materially different than its estimate, the Companys earnings may be significantly impacted as the Company records the effect of actual experience in the period it occurs. 58 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are entitled to health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company measures its pension and post retirement plans assets and obligations as of the end of each year to determine the funded status of each plan. The Company recognizes an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status in its statement of financial position. Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and are reported in comprehensive income. Accounting standards require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans be computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, changes in the assumptions (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. For the U.S. plan, the Company used a 5.2% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2010, which represents a decrease of 55 basis points in the discount rate from December 31, 2009. For non U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the U.S. and non U.S. net obligation by $59 million ($40 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2010. For 2010, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the U.S. plan has been estimated at 8%. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2010 would have increased $5 million (or $3 million on an after tax basis). The Companys non U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.20% for 2010 and ranged from 0.75% to 8.0% for 2009. For a discussion of the Companys 2010 and anticipated 2011 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Requirements. Income Taxes: The Companys income tax expense represents the current tax liability for the year and the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Companys tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Judgment is required in estimating valuation allowances. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies, and can also be impacted by changes to tax laws. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Companys tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by recognizing the financial statement effects of a tax position only when, based upon the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company generally re evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and recognizes an uncertain tax benefit when (i) there is completion of tax audit; (ii) there is a change in applicable tax law including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) there is an expiration of the statute of limitations. 59 Table of Contents An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0 percent would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 of approximately $23 million. New Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. This ASU establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for arrangements including multiple revenue generating activities and provides amendments to the criteria for separating deliverables and measuring and allocating arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting. The amendments also establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. Significantly enhanced disclosures are also required to provide information about a vendors multiple deliverable revenue arrangements, including information about the nature and terms, significant deliverables, and its performance within arrangements. The amendments also require providing information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and about how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Concurrent with the issuance of ASU No. 2009 13, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. This ASU changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements that are essential to the functionality, and scopes these products out of current software revenue guidance. The new guidance includes factors to help companies determine what software elements are considered essential to the functionality. The amendments will now subject software enabled products to other revenue guidance and disclosure requirements, such as guidance surrounding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Effective January 1, 2011, the Company adopted, on a prospective basis, the provisions of these updated accounting standards related to revenue recognition associated with contractual arrangements involving multiple elements and contractual arrangements involving tangible products that include software. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the effect of adopting these standards on future financial periods as the impact will vary depending on the nature and volume of new or materially modified transactions in any given period. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 60 Table of Contents 
 
