Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For a discussion of risks related to our non US operations and foreign currency exchange, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. Major Customers No customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales in 2011, 2010 or 2009. Available Information We maintain an internet website at www.danaher.com. We make available free of charge on the website our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the SEC. Our Internet site and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Deterioration of or instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. During 2011, the global economy showed signs of recovering from the widespread recessionary conditions of 2008 and 2009, 16 Table of Contents which witnessed record levels of unemployment in some countries and extreme volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets. However, uncertainty remains as to the overall rate and sustainability of the recovery, particularly in Europe, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience further recessionary conditions and other adverse effects from broad economic trends, or that any improvements will be broad based and will benefit the markets we serve. The deterioration or instability of the economies and financial markets in the geographies in which we do business could adversely affect the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: reducing demand for our products and services, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increasing price competition in our served markets; resulting in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long lived assets; and increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us. In particular, the European debt crisis and the instability and uncertainty relating to the Euro could constrain government budgets, limit the financing available to our suppliers and customers and adversely affect the economies and capital markets in Europe and other geographies, which could in turn adversely affect demand for our products, the availability of supplies and the value of our Euro denominated assets and obligations. Although we have been able to continue accessing the commercial paper markets through the date of this report, there can be no assurances that the commercial paper markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. The restructuring actions that we have taken to reduce costs could have long term adverse effects on our business. In 2008, 2009 and 2011, we implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure. These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) have the effect of reducing our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and technologies, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly as demand for our products increases. These circumstances could adversely impact our financial statements. Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our financial statements. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses product demand depends on customers capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Our product demand is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions and customer inventory levels. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand, decreased market share and price reductions for our products. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation. Because of the diversity of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see Item 1. Business Competition for additional details. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrate new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively and or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our financial statements. 17 Table of Contents Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop innovative new products and product enhancements on a timely basis, our products will become obsolete over time and our competitive position and financial statements will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects; anticipate and respond to our competitors development of new products and technological innovations; differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings and avoid product commoditization; innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; obtain adequate intellectual property rights; successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and encourage customers to adopt new technologies. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and or non U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees and could damage our reputation. Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and antitrust and other regulatory approvals and the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our current and anticipated business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies. Our acquisition of businesses, including our acquisition of Beckman Coulter, could negatively impact our financial statements. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for additional details. In particular, as of the date of this report the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. in June 2011 18 Table of Contents was Danahers largest acquisition and has expanded Danahers business into new markets. Our acquisitions involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial statements: Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable. Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment communitys expectations in any given period, or over the long term. Pre closing and post closing acquisition related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period. Acquisitions could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address. We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems and retaining key employees and customers. We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition. We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired companys activities. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. In connection with acquisitions, we often enter into post closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements. Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial statements. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms and within our anticipated timeframe, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre closing conditions which may not become satisfied. In addition, divestitures may dilute the Companys earnings per share, have other adverse accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. In addition, we have retained responsibility for and or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information. Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies of other countries and by regulations governing radioactive or other hazardous materials (or the manufacture and sale of products containing such materials). For more information regarding these regulations please see Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory 19 Table of Contents clearance (such as 510(k) clearance) for our new products or modifications to existing products within the anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance it may be time consuming, costly and restrictive. Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances will depend on many factors, including our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained. Failure to obtain such regulatory clearances before marketing our products, other violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre market notification rescissions. As Beckman Coulter previously reported in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a stand alone company, the business is addressing issues raised by the FDA relating to its compliance and quality systems and product clearances for certain of its assays. These matters have been the subject of Form 483 Inspectional Observations and warning letters issued by the FDA to certain of the business facilities. Although the obtaining of regulatory clearances and other resolutions with respect to these matters depends upon many factors and the timing thereof cannot be predicted with certainty, the business is working diligently to address these issues. We are also subject to various laws regulating (1) fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, and (2) the privacy and security of health information, including the federal regulations described in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters. Many states and foreign countries have also adopted laws and regulations similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, such federal regulations. For more information regarding these regulations please see Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters. Failure to comply with the regulations described above could result in the adverse effects referenced below under Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, which could adversely affect our financial statements. The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, including the following: Many of our customers, and the end users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA), healthcare austerity measures in Europe and other potential healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures may reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end users of our products and services. Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement. Beginning in 2013, the PPACA will also impose a 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States as well as new reporting and disclosure requirements on medical device manufacturers. Governmental and private healthcare providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of healthcare services, forming group purchasing organizations to improve their purchasing leverage and using competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services. These changes may cause participants in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products services from governmental agencies or third party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services, increase our tax liabilities and increase our compliance and other costs. In addition, we may be unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability. All of the factors described above could adversely affect our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will at all times be effective. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements. In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2011 will have a material effect on our financial statements. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. In addition to the anticorruption, environmental, health, safety and FDA related regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non U.S. governmental and self regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following: We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies. In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract. Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. Failure to comply with these or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies, damage to our reputation and loss of customers and could cause us to incur significant legal fees. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the ISO, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our financial statements. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters. 21 Table of Contents We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. At December 31, 2011, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets totaled approximately $17.1 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non U.S. jurisdictions. Please see the MD&A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non U.S. tax authorities. Due to the potential for changes to tax law and the ambiguity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations and other factors, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services and intellectual property are complex and can also affect our tax liabilities. We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition or divestiture related matters. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial statements. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, make estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period. We cannot assure you that our liabilities in connection with litigation and similar proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and similar proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2011 will have a material effect on our financial statements. 22 Table of Contents If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial statements. Product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. Manufacturing or design defects in (including in products or components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. Recalls, removals and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $5.3 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2011, we had the ability to incur an additional $1.5 billion of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities. Our debt level and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly to finance acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents Our current revolving credit facility and long term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us; for more information please refer to the MD&A. If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, any failure to maintain the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies would adversely affect our cost of funds and could adversely affect our liquidity and access to the capital markets. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our financial statements. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors products, and if they favor our competitors products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our financial statements. Changes in the levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability. We may incur higher costs to produce our products if commodity prices rise. As discussed in Item 1. Business Materials, our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of raw materials. Prices for and availability of these raw materials have fluctuated significantly in the past. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover higher raw material costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our financial statements could be adversely affected. If we cannot adjust the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changing market conditions or customer demand, our profitability may suffer. In addition, our reliance upon sole sources of supply for certain materials and components could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality. During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our costs may increase. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into non cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design. If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes. Any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies. If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity to reflect the demand for our products, our profitability may suffer. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our profitability. 24 Table of Contents Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs, privacy and electronic communications. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations. In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, or the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, the manner in which regulations and related regulatory deadlines impact demand for our products may be substantially different from period to period. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements. In 2011, approximately 58% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets, such as China, India and Brazil. Our international business (and particularly our business in emerging markets) is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non U.S. operations, including: interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; local product preferences and product requirements; changes in a countrys or regions political or economic conditions (including safety and health issues); trade protection measures and import or export restrictions and requirements; unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws; limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; the potential for nationalization of enterprises; limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; differing labor regulations; difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and differing protection of intellectual property. Any of these risks could negatively affect our financial statements and growth. If we suffer loss to our facilities, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe, attacks or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism or other natural or man made disasters. In addition, attacks on our information technology systems and networks could result in the compromising of confidential information, manipulation or destruction of data or improper use of our systems and networks. If any of these facilities, systems or networks were to experience a catastrophic loss or attack, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses. The third party insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to these and other risks will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against losses. 25 Table of Contents Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in discount rates may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements. We own a 50% interest in but do not control the Apex Tool Group joint venture, and as a result we may not be able to direct management of the joint venture in a manner that we believe is in Danahers best interests. In 2010, Danaher and Cooper Industries plc formed a joint venture named Apex Tool Group LLC. Each company contributed its respective tools business to, and received a 50% interest in, the joint venture. Our joint venture partner may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Since we do not control the joint venture, we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture in the manner that we believe is most appropriate. In addition, the joint venture agreement gives each party veto rights with respect to certain fundamental corporate actions, and as a result we cannot assure you that we could effect certain fundamental corporate actions that we believe would be in Danahers best interests. Any of these circumstances and any conflict that may arise between the parties could adversely impact our financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Washington, D.C. in a facility that we lease. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 241 significant manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide. 123 of these facilities are located in the United States in over 40 states and 118 are located outside the United States in over 50 other countries, primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, the rest of North America, Latin America and Australia. These facilities cover approximately 22.8 million square feet, of which approximately 13.4 million square feet are owned and approximately 9.4 million square feet are leased. Particularly outside the United States, facilities often serve more than one business segment and may be used for multiple purposes, such as administration, sales, manufacturing, warehousing and or distribution. The number of significant facilities by business segment is: Test & Measurement, 39; Environmental, 41; Life Sciences & Diagnostics, 79; Dental, 23; and Industrial Technologies, 59. We consider our facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used and do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. We believe our properties and equipment have been well maintained. Please refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information with respect to our lease commitments. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS None ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable 26 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and experience of our executive officers as of February 10, 2012. All of our executive officers hold office at the pleasure of our Board of Directors. Name Age Position Officer Since Steven M. Rales 60 Chairman of the Board 1984 Mitchell P. Rales 55 Chairman of the Executive Committee 1984 H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. 48 Chief Executive Officer and President 1995 Daniel L. Comas 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 1996 William K. Daniel II 47 Executive Vice President 2006 Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. 51 Executive Vice President 2002 James A. Lico 46 Executive Vice President 2002 James H. Ditkoff 65 Senior Vice President Finance and Tax 1991 Jonathan P. Graham 51 Senior Vice President General Counsel 2006 Robert S. Lutz 54 Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 2002 Daniel A. Raskas 45 Senior Vice President Corporate Development 2004 Steven M. Rales is a co founder of Danaher and has served on Danahers Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Danahers Chairman of the Board since 1984. He was also CEO of the Company from 1984 to 1990. In addition, for more than the past five years he has been a principal in private business entities in the areas of manufacturing and film production. Mr. Rales is a brother of Mitchell P. Rales. Mitchell P. Rales is a co founder of Danaher and has served on Danahers Board of Directors since 1983, serving as Chairman of the Executive Committee of Danaher since 1984. He was also President of the Company from 1984 to 1990. In addition, for more than the past five years he has been a principal in private and public business entities in the manufacturing area. Mr. Rales is also a member of the board of directors of Colfax Corporation, and is a brother of Steven M. Rales. H. Lawrence Culp, Jr. has served on Danahers Board of Directors and as Danahers President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2001. He is also a member of the board of directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Daniel L. Comas has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. William K. Daniel II served as Vice President and Group Executive from 2006 until July 2008 and has served as Executive Vice President since July 2008. Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. has served as Executive Vice President since 2006. James A. Lico has served as Executive Vice President since 2005. James H. Ditkoff has served as Senior Vice President Finance and Tax since 2002. Jonathan P. Graham has served as Senior Vice President General Counsel since 2006. Robert S. Lutz served as Vice President Chief Accounting Officer from March 2003 to February 2010 and has served as Senior Vice President Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010. Daniel A. Raskas joined Danaher as Vice President Corporate Development in November 2004 and has served as Senior Vice President Corporate Development since February 2010. 27 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DHR. As of February 13, 2012, there were approximately 3,616 holders of record of our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, and the dividends paid per share, in each case for the periods described below, were as follows: 2011 2010 High Low DividendsPer Share High Low DividendsPer Share First quarter $ 52.52 $ 45.99 $ 0.020 $ 40.38 $ 35.01 $ 0.020 Second quarter $ 55.72 $ 51.11 $ 0.020 $ 43.65 $ 36.22 $ 0.020 Third quarter $ 55.02 $ 40.52 $ 0.025 $ 41.43 $ 35.71 $ 0.020 Fourth quarter $ 50.86 $ 40.42 $ 0.025 $ 47.35 $ 39.70 $ 0.020 Our payment of dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend on business conditions, our earnings and other factors. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company increased its regular quarterly dividend from $0.020 per share to $0.025 per share by declaring a dividend of $0.025 per share that was paid on October 28, 2011 to holders of record as of September 30, 2011. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Neither the Company nor any affiliated purchaser repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2011. On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2011, 20 million shares remain available for repurchase pursuant to this program. Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities During the fourth quarter of 2011, holders of certain of the Companys Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs) converted such LYONs into an aggregate of 9,154 shares of Danaher common stock, par value $0.01 per share. In each case, the shares of common stock were issued solely to existing security holders upon conversion of the LYONs pursuant to the exemption from registration provided under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Stock Split On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split (effected in the form of a dividend by issuing one additional share of common stock for each issued share of common stock) which was paid on June 10, 2010 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 25, 2010. All prior period share and per share amounts set forth in this report, including earnings per share, dividends per share and the weighted average number of shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for each respective period, have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share information) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Sales $ 16,090,540 $ 12,550,033 $ 10,516,681 $ 11,980,633 $ 10,358,275 Operating profit 2,617,226 2,049,620 1,439,682 1,758,058 1,635,786 Net earnings from continuing operations 1,935,287 1,718,183 (b) 1,087,044 1,248,228 1,146,439 Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 236,977 (a) 74,817 64,660 69,403 223,465 (c) Net earnings 2,172,264 (a) 1,793,000 (b) 1,151,704 1,317,631 1,369,904 (c) Net earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic $ 2.86 $ 2.63 (b) $ 1.69 $ 1.95 $ 1.84 Diluted 2.77 2.53 (b) 1.63 1.87 1.75 Net earnings per share from discontinued operations: Basic 0.35 (a) $ 0.11 $ 0.10 $ 0.11 $ 0.36 (c) Diluted 0.34 (a) 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.34 (c) Net earnings per share: Basic $ 3.21 (a) $ 2.74 (b) 1.80 * $ 2.06 $ 2.20 (c) Diluted 3.11 (a) 2.64 (b) 1.73 1.98 * 2.09 (c) Dividends per share $ 0.09 $ 0.08 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.05 Total assets $ 29,949,447 $ 22,217,130 $ 19,595,420 $ 17,490,128 $ 17,471,935 Total debt $ 5,305,192 $ 2,824,668 $ 2,933,209 $ 2,619,329 $ 3,726,244 (a) Includes $328 million ($202 million after tax or $0.29 per diluted share) gain on sale of the Companys Pacific Scientific Aerospace business. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes $291 million ($232 million after tax or $0.34 per diluted share) gain on contribution of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex) joint venture. Refer to Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (c) Includes $211 million ($150 million after tax or $0.23 per diluted share) gain on the sale of the Companys power quality business. * Net earnings per share amounts do not add due to rounding. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Danahers financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Estimates OVERVIEW General Please see Item 1. Business General for a discussion of Danahers objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2011, approximately 58% of Danahers sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry specific economic and political factors. Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its products and services, typically helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of the Companys geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of challenges and opportunities, including rapid technological development in most of the Companys served markets, the expansion of opportunities in emerging markets, trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force and consolidation of the Companys competitors. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Companys long term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high growth geographies and high growth product segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Companys sales force and continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer facing resources (particularly in emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil) in order to be responsive to the Companys customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Companys operations. Business Performance and Outlook While differences exist among the Companys businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Companys products and services increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 resulting in aggregate year over year sales growth. In addition, the Companys previous investment in sales growth initiatives and the other business specific factors discussed below contributed to year over year sales growth. Geographically, year over year sales growth rates during 2011 were led primarily by China and other emerging markets. Sales growth rates in developed markets were led by North America. Providing no significant deterioration in general economic conditions occurs, the Company expects sales from existing businesses to continue to grow on a year over year basis during 2012 but at a moderating rate from that experienced during 2011, particularly in the Industrial Technologies segment, and to a lesser extent, the Test & Measurement segment. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. (Beckman Coulter) as discussed below provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys Life Sciences and Diagnostics segment by expanding the businesses geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the areas of clinical diagnostics and life sciences research, and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. As Beckman Coulter is integrated into the Company, the Company also expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Beckman Coulter. For a discussion of the acquisitions impact on the Company and segment results, please refer to the Results of Operations section of this MD&A. 30 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures On June 30, 2011, following the successful completion of the Companys tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter, the Company completed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter by merging one of its indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries with and into Beckman Coulter such that Beckman Coulter became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Beckman Coulter develops, manufactures and markets products that simplify and automate complex biomedical testing. Beckman Coulters diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and produce information used by physicians to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Scientists use its life science research instruments to study complex biological problems including causes of disease and potential new therapies or drugs. Beckman Coulter had revenues of approximately $3.7 billion in 2010, and is included in the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The Company paid approximately $5.5 billion in cash (net of approximately $450 million cash acquired) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter and assumed approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. The Company financed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter using (1) approximately $2.3 billion of available cash, (2) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $966 million from the underwritten public offering of the Companys common stock on June 21, 2011, (3) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $1.8 billion from the underwritten public offering of senior unsecured notes on June 23, 2011, and (4) net proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program prior to the closing of the acquisition. In addition to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter during 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of thirteen other businesses (including the acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market), for total consideration of $669 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The additional businesses acquired manufacture and distribute products and or provide services in the product identification, water quality, life sciences and diagnostic, test and measurement, retail petroleum and dental markets and were acquired to complement existing units of the Industrial Technologies, Environmental, Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement and Dental segments. The aggregate annual sales of the thirteen businesses acquired at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million. In April 2011, the Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace (PSA) business for a sale price of $680 million in cash. This business, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment and supplies safety, security and electric power components to commercial and military aerospace markets globally, had annual revenues of $377 million in 2010. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company reported an after tax gain on the sale of approximately $202 million or $0.29 per diluted share. In November 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its integrated scanning system business (the Accu Sort businesses or ASI) for a sale price of approximately $135 million in cash, and the sale was consummated in January 2012. In addition, in December 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Kollmorgen Electro Optical (KEO) business for a sale price of approximately $210 million in cash, and the sale was consummated in February 2012. These businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies segment. ASI supplies bar code scanning and dimensional measurement systems and KEO designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates highly engineered, stabilized electro optical/ISR systems that integrate into submarines, surface ships and ground vehicles. The businesses had combined annual revenues of $275 million in 2011. The Company expects to reflect an aggregate after tax gain on the sale of these businesses of approximately $93 million or $0.13 per diluted share in its first quarter 2012 results in connection with the closing of these transactions. The Company has reported the PSA, ASI and KEO businesses as discontinued operations in this Form 10 K. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect these businesses as discontinued operations and the assets and liabilities of these businesses have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented. 31 Table of Contents During 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which included a 50% ownership position in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex joint venture (AB Sciex) and a 100% ownership position in the Molecular Devices business (Molecular Devices). In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. In addition, during 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (Cooper), combining certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex). For a full discussion of the Companys 2010 acquisition activity and the Apex joint venture, refer Liquidity and Capital Resources Investing Activities. 2011 Restructuring Activities Consistent with the Companys approach of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, and in light of the uncertain macro economic environment, the Company incurred $179 million (including $120 million in the fourth quarter) of costs associated with restructuring activities. Included in the total restructuring costs are costs associated with the integration and restructuring of the Beckman Coulter business subsequent to the acquisition. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 28.0% compared to 2010. Sales from existing businesses increased 7.0% on a year over year basis. The impact of currency translation increased reported sales by 2.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, weaker against other major currencies during 2011 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2010. The sales increase from acquired businesses more than offset the year over year sales decline attributable to the 2010 contribution of businesses to the Apex joint venture and on a net basis increased reported sales by 18.5%. In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses, (2) 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture, and (3) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period to period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) and (b) the period to period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under managements control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long term performance difficult. The Company excludes the effect of the 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture because the Company did not recognize sales from those businesses in 2011. Operating profit margins were 16.3% for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 160 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquisitions (net of the favorable impact to operating profit margin of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture in July 2010) adversely impacted operating margin comparisons by 110 basis points. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to acquisition related inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points. 32 Table of Contents Operating profit margins were 16.3% in the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 13.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during 2010 is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons also benefited from approximately 160 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. The favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies in the third quarter 2009 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses, 2009 divestitures and the operating profit margin impact of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture in 2010 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by approximately 65 basis points. 2010 acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in 2009) also adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The Company deems acquisition related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Companys larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period. Business Segments The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Test & Measurement $ 3,390.9 $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 Environmental 2,939.6 2,738.0 2,418.7 Life Sciences & Diagnostics 4,627.4 2,298.3 1,484.9 Dental 2,011.2 1,824.6 1,657.0 Industrial Technologies 3,121.4 2,540.6 2,126.9 Businesses contributed to Apex joint venture 315.6 607.9 Total $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 TEST & MEASUREMENT The Companys Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments and monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications and enterprise networks and related services. The segments products are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Also included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Companys mobile tool and wheel service businesses. Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 3,390.9 $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 Operating profit 751.2 572.9 301.4 Depreciation and amortization 126.6 107.8 93.5 Restructuring and other related charges 18.8 67.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 22.2 % 20.2 % 13.6 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.7 % 3.8 % 4.2 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.6 % 3.0 % 33 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 9.5 % 17.0 % Acquisitions 8.0 % 10.5 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % Total 19.5 % 27.5 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2011. During 2011, sales in the segments instrument businesses grew on a year over year basis due to increased demand for oscilloscopes and service and installation tools, partially offset by year over year declines in sales attributable to products serving the video end markets. Instrument sales grew in all major geographies during the year led by Asia and other emerging markets. Instrument sales grew primarily during the first three quarters of 2011 as fourth quarter 2011 sales were essentially flat compared to 2010. Sales of instruments are expected to continue to grow during 2012 on year over year basis, albeit at a rate lower than was experienced during 2011. Sales in the segments communications businesses also grew during 2011 on a year over year basis, primarily in North America, as a result of strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Global demand for network security and analysis solutions was also robust in 2011. Operating profit margins increased 200 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 220 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 20 basis points. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. During 2010, demand increased significantly for the business core instruments, including oscilloscopes, thermography products and digital multi meters. Sales were strong in all major geographies, with particular strength in China. In addition, distributor inventory reductions that occurred in the first three quarters of 2009 due to the recessionary economic conditions did not continue into 2010 which positively impacted the year over year comparisons. Sales from existing businesses in the segments communications businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 on a year over year basis driven by strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Operating profit margins increased 660 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 265 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. 2010 acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points as such charges were greater in 2009 than in 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 130 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. ENVIRONMENTAL The Companys Environmental segment provides products that help protect customers water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Danahers water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure, potable, and waste water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications. Danahers retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market. 34 Table of Contents Environmental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 2,939.6 $ 2,738.0 $ 2,418.7 Operating profit 622.7 564.3 471.0 Depreciation and amortization 45.9 45.9 43.1 Restructuring and other related charges 7.5 31.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 21.2 % 20.6 % 19.5 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.6 % 1.7 % 1.8 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.3 % 1.3 % Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 4.0 % 10.5 % Acquisitions 1.5 % 3.0 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % (0.5 %) Total 7.5 % 13.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. Strong demand during the first half of 2011 for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines in the municipal and industrial markets moderated slightly during the second half of 2011. While demand in the China municipal market increased on a year over year basis during 2011, the rate of revenue growth for the year declined compared to the 2010 growth rate. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a low double digit rate on a year over year basis as municipal markets returned to growth in the second half of the year, and in particular during the fourth quarter, after having declined in the first half of 2011. Sales in the segments ultraviolet water treatment product line are expected to decline in the first quarter 2012 on a year over year basis due, in large part, to a difficult prior year comparison resulting from strong industrial sales in the first quarter 2011. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew at a low double digit rate on a year over year basis primarily due to the addition of new customers in the U.S. market and to a lesser extent to continued international expansion. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail/commercial petroleum equipment businesses declined at a low single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. The year over year sales decline during the period is primarily attributable to 2010 performance dynamics. The business generated strong sales of payment and point of sale retail solutions product offerings in 2010, particularly the first half of 2010, driven by deadlines for compliance with enhanced industry security standards. During 2011, increased demand for the business automatic tank gauge products and dispensing equipment in all major geographies resulted in year over year sales growth that partially offset the unfavorable impact of the difficult prior year comparison. Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 70 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 10 basis points. 35 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Demand for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines was led by industrial markets and was stronger in all major geographies as compared to 2009. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a high single digit rate during 2010. Solid year over year growth in the product lines industrial and residential applications was partially offset by a difficult prior year comparison associated with a significant drinking water treatment project that favorably impacted revenues throughout 2009 and into the first half of 2010. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 due, in part, to continuing expansion of the chemical treatment solutions product line outside of the U.S. market. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail/commercial petroleum equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Strong North American demand during 2010 for the business payment and point of sale retail solutions products was driven by enhanced industry security standards deadlines and contributed significantly to the year over year sales growth. Demand for dispensing equipment also increased in all major geographic regions due to an increase in capital spending by customers. Sales declines in the business vapor recovery product offerings in North America, primarily due to regulatory compliance deadlines in 2009 compared to 2010, partially offset these increases. Operating profit margins increased 110 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 100 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 55 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. Incremental year over year investments in 2010 compared to 2009 associated with the segments emerging market growth initiatives also negatively impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons. LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS The Companys diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. The Companys life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components to gain a better understanding of complex biological processes. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions use these tools to study the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 4,627.4 $ 2,298.3 $ 1,484.9 Operating profit 402.3 227.9 179.6 Depreciation and amortization 297.2 90.7 56.6 Restructuring and other related charges 100.9 16.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 8.7 % 9.9 % 12.1 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 6.4 % 3.9 % 3.8 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.2 % 1.1 % 36 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 7.0 % 9.0 % Acquisitions 91.0 % 46.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % Total 101.5 % 55.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. The significant growth related to acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011 which significantly expanded the segments product and service offerings, as further described below. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation and new instrument placements, primarily in Europe, China and other Asian markets. Demand for the business compact blood gas analyzer also remained strong, particularly in emerging markets. Increased European and emerging market demand for the business cardiac care instruments also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments pathology diagnostics business also grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of increased demand for advanced staining instruments and consumables, as well as higher sales of core histology systems and consumables, primarily in North America and emerging markets, and to a lesser extent, Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has significantly expanded the segments product portfolio in the area of clinical diagnostics through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings. Sales from existing businesses in the segments microscopy businesses grew at a mid single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of strong demand for confocal and compound instrumentation serving the life sciences research and industrial markets, particularly in China and the emerging markets, and to lesser extent, Europe. A difficult prior year comparison resulting from first quarter 2010 sales associated with Japanese economic stimulus funding partially reduced the reported sales growth for 2011. Strong demand for the business broad range of mass spectrometers serving both the academic and proteomic research markets as well as the applied markets resulted in a low double digit growth rate from sales from existing businesses in the segments mass spectrometry business during 2011 as compared to 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the mass spectrometry business grew in all major geographies during 2011 led by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region and North America and to a lesser extent Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has also expanded the segments product portfolio in the area of life sciences research through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings. Operating profit margins decreased 120 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquisitions, primarily related to costs associated with Beckman Coulters restructuring and integration activities, adversely impacted segment operating profit margins by 295 basis points. Acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) also adversely impacted operating profit margins by 95 basis points. Higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, favorably impacted year over year comparisons by 270 basis points. The Company expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System to Beckman Coulter and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Beckman Coulter. Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales increased during 2011 primarily as a result of the increase in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. In addition, as a majority of the Beckman Coulter customers enter into operating type lease arrangements for the use of the business instrumentation, depreciation expense increased on a year over year basis. Depreciation and amortization expense in the segment is expected to continue to be higher than the segments historical depreciation and amortization expense levels for these same reasons. 37 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in January 2010. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due primarily to strong demand in all major geographies for a new version of the business compact blood gas analyzer. Increased European demand for the business cardiac care instruments as well as continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life sciences instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared 2009. Year over year growth was driven primarily by strong demand in all major geographies for new instruments and consumables in the pathology diagnostics business. Increased sales of compound and stereo microscopy equipment serving the life sciences research and industrial markets also contributed to the growth. Japanese economic stimulus funding also positively impacted 2010 sales as purchases were required to be completed by March 2010 in order to be eligible for Japanese stimulus funding. Operating profit margins decreased 220 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. Acquisition related charges during 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances, primarily related to the AB Sciex and Molecular Devices acquisitions, as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (in each case net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in 2009) adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 270 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses had an adverse impact of 265 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 50 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. DENTAL The Companys Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of equipment, consumables and services for the dental market, focused on driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. Dental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 2,011.2 $ 1,824.6 $ 1,657.0 Operating profit before Align gain 236.1 203.3 130.8 Impact of Align gain 85.1 Total operating profit 236.1 203.3 215.9 Depreciation and amortization 94.0 81.7 71.3 Restructuring and other related charges 28.3 43.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 11.7 % 11.1 % 13.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.7 % 4.5 % 4.3 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.4 % 2.6 % 38 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 4.5 % 4.5 % Acquisitions 2.5 % 6.5 % Currency exchange rates 3.0 % (1.0 %) Total 10.0 % 10.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses grew at a mid single digit rate in 2011 driven primarily by increased demand for general dentistry consumables and orthodontic products and, to a lesser extent, infection control products. Sales in the dental consumables business grew in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental equipment business grew on a year over year basis at a mid single digit rate due to strong imaging and instrument product demand. Increased sales of imaging products were led by North America, and to lesser extent, the emerging markets, while instrument sales growth was driven largely by North America and Europe. Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements, including cost reduction actions in the dental equipment businesses, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments increased operating profit margin by 95 basis points on a year over year basis. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses were essentially flat in 2010 as compared to 2009. Robust demand for orthodontia products throughout 2010 in addition to increased sales of infection control products were offset by weak demand for general dentistry consumables (primarily during the first three quarters of 2010) primarily as a result of adjustments to inventory levels in distribution channels that occurred during those periods. Demand in the general dentistry consumable businesses increased sequentially in the fourth quarter 2010 as inventories in the distribution channels returned to more normalized levels. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate and increased in all major product categories during 2010 as compared to 2009. Growth was led by increased sales in the imaging product lines as a result of strong demand for 3D equipment and a new digital x ray sensor. Year over year demand also increased for the business instruments and treatment units. Imaging product sales were particularly strong in North America and Asia, while instrument and treatment unit sales were particularly strong in Europe. Operating profit margins decreased 190 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in operating profit margins was largely due to the favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies that occurred in 2009 and adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 10 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes during 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 145 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Companys Industrial Technologies segment designs and manufactures components and systems that are typically incorporated by original equipment manufacturers and system integrators for sale into a diverse set of applications and end markets. The businesses in this segment also provide service and support, including helping customers with integration and installation and providing services to ensure performance and up time. The Industrial 39 Table of Contents Technologies segment consists of two strategic lines of business, product identification and motion, as well as the sensors and controls, defense and engine retarder businesses. The Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business in April 2011, its Accu Sort business in January 2012 and its Kollmorgen Electro Optical business in February 2012. These businesses were previously reported as part of the Industrial Technologies segment and all current and prior year results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued operations. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 3,121.4 $ 2,540.6 $ 2,126.9 Operating profit 655.0 513.3 297.5 Depreciation and amortization 65.8 51.5 51.5 Restructuring and other related charges 23.8 52.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 21.0 % 20.2 % 14.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 2.1 % 2.0 % 2.4 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.8 % 2.5 % Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 11.5 % 19.0 % Acquisitions 9.5 % 0.5 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % Total 23.0 % 19.5 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 2.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a high single digit rate on a year over year basis during 2011, primarily due to continued strong demand for core marking and coding equipment. Consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies. The 2011 acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging and design and production market, provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding the businesses product line diversity and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2011. Sales growth rates declined in the second half of 2011 compared to growth rates in the first half of 2011, in part due to easier prior year comparisons in the first half of 2011 as well as the impact of slowing demand on a global basis in the second half of 2011, primarily in the technology related and solar end markets. Year over year sales increases in engineered solutions and linear and mechanical motion products during the second half of 2011 more than offset sales declines in industrial automation that occurred primarily in the fourth quarter 2011. Sales grew in all major geographies. Year over year sales are expected to decline in the first quarter 2012 due, in part, to softness in technology related end markets and also due to anticipated lower demand for engineered solutions. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a mid teens rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 due to generally higher demand in the majority of end markets served. Operating profit margins increased 80 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 135 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points. 40 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a mid teens rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased demand for core marking and coding equipment as customers released capital spending that had been delayed from prior years. Strong consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies with particular strength in Europe and the emerging markets. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 as demand was strong in the majority of end markets served due primarily to the general economic recovery. While growth was generally broad based, industrial automation led the growth with strong sales of advanced motor and drive product offerings. Sales increased in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a high teens digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due to generally higher demand in most major end markets. Operating profit margins increased 620 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 175 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The divestiture of certain lower margin businesses and product lines in the fourth quarter 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring activities also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points. COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 Cost of sales 7,913.9 6,145.5 5,446.6 Gross profit 8,176.6 6,404.5 5,070.1 Gross profit margin 50.8 % 51.0 % 48.2 % Gross profit margins decreased 20 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The combination of the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, which has lower overall gross profit margins than the Companys existing businesses, and 35 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010 relating primarily to the AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions) adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by 45 basis points. Higher year over year sales volumes and continued productivity improvements partially offset these adverse impacts. The gross profit margin comparison also reflects the benefit of 65 basis points from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter 2010 of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses, which had lower average gross profit margins than the remainder of the Company. Gross profit margins for 2010 increased 280 basis points from 2009. The year over year increase reflects the impact of higher sales volumes as compared to 2009, year over year cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 90 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Gross profit margins during 2010 also benefited from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses. Acquisition related charges recorded in 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by approximately 30 basis points. 41 Table of Contents OPERATING EXPENSES For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses 4,607.7 3,603.7 3,115.3 Research and development (R&D) expenses 1,018.5 774.0 600.3 SG&A as a % of sales 28.6 % 28.7 % 29.6 % R&D as a % of sales 6.3 % 6.2 % 5.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 10 basis points on a year over year basis for 2011 as compared to 2010. Increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2011 was partially offset by 60 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 and continued investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives. In addition, change in control payments to Beckman Coulter employees in connection with the closing of the Beckman Coulter acquisition adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales during 2011. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 90 basis points on a year over year basis in 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2010 reflects the benefit of increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2010 as compared to 2009, in addition to 70 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Incremental year over year investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives, increased commission costs due to the higher sales volumes and the dilutive effect of certain recently acquired businesses and those businesses higher relative operating expense structures partially offset these year over year improvements. Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points on a year over year basis during 2011. Recently acquired businesses with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives primarily contributed to the increase. The increase also reflects the contribution of most of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture in the third quarter of 2010, as the contributed businesses had historically lower research and development spending as a percentage of sales relative to the overall Company average. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales increased 50 basis points during 2010 on a year over year basis. The increase is primarily attributable to the contribution of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture. Overall research and development costs also increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to recently acquired businesses, primarily AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives. EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE In July 2010 the Company closed on the formation of the Apex joint venture. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated its contributed businesses and commenced accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. The equity in the earnings of Apex, reflecting the Companys 50% ownership position subsequent to the formation, is reflected in the earnings from unconsolidated joint venture caption in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 42 Table of Contents The impact on the Companys results of operations from (1) the contributed business prior to the formation of Apex, and (2) the Companys equity in the earnings of Apex subsequent to the formation of Apex, is reflected in the table below ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Prior to formation of Apex Sales $ 315.6 $ 607.9 Operating profit 41.5 63.9 Subsequent to formation of Apex Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture $ 66.8 22.8 Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture increased $44 million for 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily due to a full year of earnings in 2011 as compared to only six months of earnings in 2010 following the closing of the formation of the joint venture in July 2010. INTEREST COSTS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $142 million in 2011 was approximately $24 million higher than 2010 interest expense of $117 million. The increase in interest expense during 2011 results primarily from the additional debt incurred during the second quarter of 2011 in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. The Companys average commercial paper borrowings were also higher in 2011 as compared to 2010, in large part due to borrowings used to partially fund the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. Interest expense in 2010 was essentially flat compared to interest expense in 2009. Interest income of $5 million, $6 million and $5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was essentially flat on a year over year basis. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect managements assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Companys financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period to period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, please refer to Cash and Cash Requirements below. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitation, reserves are adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 43 Table of Contents Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 20.9%, 22.9% and 18.0%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate for each of 2011, 2010 and 2009 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due principally to the Companys earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition, the effective tax rate in 2011 is lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions as a result of a tax ruling, court decision, and lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 240 basis points in 2011. The effective tax rate of 22.9% in 2010 is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 60 basis points in 2010. The Companys 2009 effective tax rate of 18.0% is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 730 basis points in 2009. The effective tax rate for 2012 is expected to be approximately 24%. The anticipated increase from the 2011 rate is partially attributable to the research and experimentation credit that expired at the end of 2011. INFLATION The effect of broad based inflation on the Companys revenues and net earnings was not significant in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its financial statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed rate and variable rate debt. A change in interest rates on long term debt impacts the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt but not the Companys earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2011, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from its underlying common stock) by approximately $162 million. However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Companys fixed rate long term debt does not affect the Companys results of operations or stockholders equity. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys variable rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar commercial paper borrowings and to a lesser extent, floating rate senior notes due 2013. As a result the Companys primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys outstanding commercial paper balances 44 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2011. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2011, a 150% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $2 million. A 150% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2011. In 2011, a 65% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys $300 million floating rate senior notes due 2013 would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $1 million. A 65% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual coupon interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2011. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. The Eurobond Notes described below provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Companys net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes, is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2011 (net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes) would result in a reduction of stockholders equity of approximately $584 million. The Company also faces exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its costs are incurred, and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. Currency exchange rates increased reported 2011 sales by 2.5% on a year over year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly weaker against other major currencies during 2011 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2010. The impact on reported sales due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the fourth quarter 2011 was more than offset by the impact of the U.S. dollars weakness against other major currencies during the first three quarters of 2011. As a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, if the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2011 prevail throughout 2012, currency exchange rates would negatively impact 2012 reported sales by approximately 2.0% relative to the Companys performance in 2011. Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would have a further negative impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Companys sales and results of operations on an overall basis. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, the Company acquired an existing currency swap agreement. The agreement requires the Company to purchase approximately 184 million Japanese Yen (JPY/&yen;) at a rate of $1 / &yen;102.25 on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate Japanese Yen purchase commitment was approximately &yen;14.1 billion (approximately $182 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2011). The currency swap does not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result changes in the fair value of the currency swap are reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company recorded a pre tax charge of approximately $8 million related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap. 45 Table of Contents Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers, and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. The Companys emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Companys businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and only with high quality financial institutions and limits its exposure at any one institution. Equity Price Risk The Companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Companys available for sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2011 would have reduced the fair value of the Companys available for sale investment portfolio by approximately $29 million. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 46 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity For the Years Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total operating cash flows from continuing operations $ 2,732.0 $ 2,018.7 $ 1,722.8 Payments for additions to property, plant and equipment (334.5 ) (191.1 ) (175.4 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (6,210.8 ) (2,129.7 ) (703.5 ) Cash paid for other investments (66.8 ) Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations 680.1 Other sources 17.9 31.9 2.8 Net cash used in investing activities (5,847.3 ) (2,288.9 ) (942.9 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,112.5 178.4 174.2 Repayments of long term debt (1,602.4 ) (9.4 ) (24.2 ) Proceeds from public debt offerings 1,785.8 744.6 Net proceeds (repayment) of borrowings with maturities of less than 90 days 854.0 (445.7 ) Payment of dividends (61.3 ) (52.2 ) (41.7 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,088.6 116.8 407.2 Operating cash flows from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $713 million, or approximately 35%, during 2011 as compared to 2010. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during 2011. The Company acquired fourteen businesses during 2011, including the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, for total consideration (net of cash acquired) of approximately $6.2 billion. The Company financed the $5.5 billion acquisition of Beckman Coulter using (1) approximately $2.3 billion of available cash, (2) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $966 million from the underwritten public offering of the Companys common stock on June 21, 2011, (3) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $1.8 billion from the underwritten public offering of senior unsecured notes on June 23, 2011, and (4) net proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program prior to the closing of the acquisition. The Company also assumed approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness and acquired approximately $450 million of cash in connection with the acquisition. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company retired substantially all of the acquired Beckman Coulter debt using proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar commercial paper and recorded an approximate $33 million ($21 million, after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) charge to earnings due to make whole payments associated with the retirement of certain of the Beckman Coulter debt. In April 2011, the Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business for a sale price of $680 million in cash. The Companys 2011 restructuring activities used approximately $49 million in cash during 2011. 47 Table of Contents The Company contributed approximately $132 million in cash to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $45 million to the Companys non U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company held approximately $537 million of cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $2.7 billion for 2011, an increase of $713 million, or 35% as compared to 2010. The year over year change in operating cash flows from 2010 to 2011 was primarily attributable to the following factors: Earnings from continuing operations increased by $217 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. Included in 2010 earnings from continuing operations is a non cash gain of $291 million recognized on the formation of the Apex joint venture, which gain did not recur in 2011 which further contributes to the year over year operating cash flow comparison. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $247 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increased depreciation and amortization expense impacts earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable provided $63 million in operating cash flows during 2011, a $258 million improvement over 2010 during which these items used $195 million in operating cash flows. Cash income tax payments, net of refunds, from continuing operations increased by $21 million during 2011 as compared to 2010. Net cash payments for income taxes from continuing operations totaled $303 million and $282 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Partially offsetting these favorable cash flows during 2011 were additional pension contributions and employee benefit payments as compared to 2010. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $2.0 billion for 2010, an increase of $296 million, or 17% as compared to 2009. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the increase in earnings in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting this benefit was an investment in trade accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable which in the aggregate used $195 million of operating cash flows during 2010 as compared to contributing $214 million in operating cash flows during 2009. The increased use of cash reflects increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, partially offset by increased accounts payable levels, associated with increased business activity. In connection with the Companys restructuring activities, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing facilities, severing personnel and, in connection with acquisitions, integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with these activities. During 2011, the Company paid approximately $49 million related to its 2011 restructuring activities. During 2010, the Company paid approximately $110 million related to its 2009 restructuring activities. The Company anticipates cash payments of approximately $124 million during 2012 related to its 2011 restructuring activities. Please refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these expenditures. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $5.8 billion during 2011 compared to approximately $2.3 billion of net cash used in 2010 and approximately $943 million of net cash used in 2009. 48 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures 2011 Acquisitions and Divestitures For a discussion of the Companys 2011 acquisitions and divestitures please refer to Overview Acquisitions and Divestitures. 2010 Acquisitions and Apex Joint Venture On January 30, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which included a 50% ownership position in the AB Sciex joint venture and a 100% ownership position in Molecular Devices. In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. The aggregate purchase price for the combined transactions was $1.0 billion, including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. The aggregate sales of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in their last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition were approximately $650 million and these businesses now operate within the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices significantly expanded the Companys position in the life sciences and diagnostics business and in particular established a position in the mass spectrometry market. In addition to the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, the Company acquired seventeen businesses during 2010 for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the test and measurement, dental, environmental, life science and diagnostics, sensors and controls or product identification markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing businesses of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement, Dental, Environmental and Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $440 million. On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc, combining certain of the Companys hand tools businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC. The 2009 sales, on a combined basis, of the two tools businesses contributed to Apex were approximately $1.2 billion. Each of Cooper and the Company owns a 50% interest in Apex and has an equal number of representatives on Apexs Board of Directors. Upon the closing of the transaction, Apex simultaneously obtained a credit facility and term debt financing and used $45 million of the term debt financing to purchase from the Company certain assets of the Companys hand tools business. In addition to the cash received for the purchase of these assets, the Company recorded a receivable from Apex of $45 million upon closing. The Company has collected the majority of this receivable as of December 31, 2011 and expects to collect the remaining outstanding balance during 2012. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated the financial results of its contributed businesses and began accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. In accordance with accounting standards applicable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries, the Company recognized a $291 million gain ($232 million or $0.34 per diluted share on an after tax basis) during the third quarter 2010 associated with the transaction reflecting the difference between the book value of the contributed business that was deconsolidated and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, including the 50% interest in Apex and the cash and receivables received from Apex in connection with the transaction. 2009 Acquisitions and Divestitures The Company acquired fifteen businesses during 2009 for consideration of approximately $704 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing businesses within the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these fifteen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $430 million. In addition, during 2009 the Company divested five businesses or product lines for approximately $10 million of net cash proceeds. The divested businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies and the former Tools and Components segments and had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $53 million in 2009. The Company recorded no significant gain or loss, either individually or in the aggregate, associated with these divestitures. The Company used the proceeds from these sales for general corporate purposes. 49 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In addition, capital expenditures are made for the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating type lease arrangements entered into with customers by certain of the Companys businesses. Capital expenditures totaled $334 million in 2011, $191 million in 2010 and $175 million in 2009. The increase in capital spending in 2011 is primarily due to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter and the associated capitalization of instruments subject to operating type leases through customer arrangements entered into in the second half of 2011. In 2012, the Company expects capital spending to approximate $550 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. The expected increase in capital expenditures in 2012 is primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter as the majority of the business customers enter into operating type lease arrangements for use of its instrumentation products. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and debt, excess tax benefits from stock based compensation, payments of principal on indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $2.1 billion during 2011 compared to $117 million of cash provided during 2010. The year over year change was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Financing Notes (as defined below) in June 2011. Total debt was $5.3 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010. The Companys debt as of December 31, 2011 was as follows: $977 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $647 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (the Eurobond Notes); $300 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes due 2013 (the 2013 Notes); $400 million aggregate principal amount of 1.3% senior notes due 2014 (the 2014 Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior notes due 2016 (the 2016 Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes); $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.4% senior notes due 2019 (the 2019 Notes); $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.9% senior notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes and together with the 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, the 2011 Financing Notes); $380 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $251 million of other borrowings. The 2011 Financing Notes, the Eurobond Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes are collectively referred to as the Notes. Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility The Company primarily satisfies any short term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flow and available cash through issuances of commercial paper under its U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs. Under these programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2.5 billion. Interest expense on the notes is paid at maturity and is generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. During 2011, the Company issued commercial paper under its U.S. program to fund a portion of the purchase price for Beckman Coulter and the retirement of substantially all of the Beckman Coulter debt (see below). As of December 31, 2011, borrowings outstanding under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program had a weighted average interest rate of 0.2% and a weighted average maturity of approximately 30 days. Commercial paper balances during the year carried interest at rates ranging between 0.1% and 0.2% and original maturities between 1 and 67 days. There was no commercial paper outstanding under the Euro program as of December 31, 2011 or at any other time during 2011. The Company classified its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs at December 31, 2011 as long term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility referenced below, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. 50 Table of Contents Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by a $2.5 billion unsecured multi year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 15, 2016 (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Under the Credit Facility, borrowings (other than bid loans) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Companys option) either (1) a LIBOR based rate plus a margin that varies according to the Companys long term debt credit rating (the Eurodollar Rate), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%, plus in each case a margin that varies according to the Companys long term debt credit rating. Under the Credit Facility, in addition to certain initial fees the Company is obligated to pay a per annum commitment fee that varies according to its long term debt credit rating. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants. As of December 31, 2011, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the facility. In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Companys commercial paper program. The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would provide sufficient credit available under the facility to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures. The Companys ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of the Companys credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and the Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. If the Companys access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, the Company would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and the Companys Credit Facility to provide short term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. On June 17, 2011, the Company entered into a $3.0 billion 364 day unsecured revolving credit facility (the 364 Day Facility) in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company reduced the commitments under the 364 Day Facility from $3.0 billion to $2.2 billion effective as of June 27, 2011, from $2.2 billion to $1.5 billion effective as of July 21, 2011, from $1.5 billion to $1.0 billion effective as of October 1, 2011 and terminated the facility as of December 29, 2011. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 364 Day Facility at any time during the term of the facility. Other Long Term Indebtedness 2011 Financing Notes On June 23, 2011, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes, all of which are unsecured. The 2013 Notes were issued at 100% of their principal amount, will mature on June 21, 2013 and accrue interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.25% per year. The 2014 Notes were issued at 99.918% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2014 and accrue interest at the rate of 1.3% per year. The 2016 Notes were issued at 99.84% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2016 and accrue interest at the rate of 2.3% per year. The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.975% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2021 and accrue interest at the rate of 3.9% per year. The net proceeds from the 2011 Financing Notes offering, after deducting expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $1.8 billion and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company pays interest on the 2013 Notes quarterly in arrears on March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year. The Company pays interest on the 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes semi annually in arrears, on June 23 and December 23 of each year. 2019 Notes In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2019 Notes, which were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount, will mature on March 1, 2019 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.4% per annum. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $745 million. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company pays interest on the 2019 Notes semi annually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. 51 Table of Contents 2018 Notes In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2018 Notes, which were issued at 99.39% of their principal amount, will mature on January 15, 2018 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.625% per annum. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company pays interest on the 2018 Notes semi annually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15 of each year. Eurobond Notes On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the United States. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. LYONs In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of the Companys common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24.0 million shares of the Companys common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2011, an aggregate of approximately 10 million shares of the Companys common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. As of December 31, 2011, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on each of January 22, 2004 and January 22, 2011, which resulted in aggregate notes with an accreted value of approximately $1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2011. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to the Notes The Company may redeem some or all of the 2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2018 Notes and or the 2019 Notes at any time by paying the principal amount and a make whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Prior to March 23, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes by paying the principal amount and a make whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after March 23, 2021, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the Notes, each holder of Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of its Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest (100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes). A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture or comparable instrument. Except in connection with a change of control triggering event as described above, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. In addition, the Company may redeem the Eurobond notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. The indentures and comparable instruments pursuant to which the Notes were issued each contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 52 Table of Contents Beckman Coulter Indebtedness In connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, the Company also assumed indebtedness with a fair value of $1.6 billion (the Beckman Coulter Notes). During the third quarter of 2011, the Company retired substantially all of the Beckman Coulter Notes using proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar commercial paper and recorded an approximate $33 million ($21 million, after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) charge to earnings due to make whole payments associated with the extinguishment of certain of the Beckman Coulter Notes. The charge to earnings is reflected as loss on early extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For additional details regarding the Companys debt as of December 31, 2011 see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shelf Registration Statement The Company has a well known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. On June 21, 2011, the Company used this shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of 19,250,000 shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $51.75 per share. The net proceeds, after deducting expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $966 million and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for Beckman Coulter. On June 23, 2011, the Company also used this shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include, but are not limited to, reduction or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations; acquisitions; capital expenditures; share repurchases and dividends; and working capital. Stock Repurchase Program On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. Neither the Company nor any affiliated purchaser repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2011 or 2010. As of December 31, 2011, 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to this program. The Company expects to fund any future repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company declared a regular dividend of $0.025 per share that was paid on January 27, 2012 to holders of record on December 30, 2011. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2011 were approximately $61 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2011, the Company held $537 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an average weighted annual interest rate of 0.2%. $14 million of this amount was held within the United States and $523 million was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, pay taxes, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but 53 Table of Contents in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper program or the Credit Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and or access the capital markets as needed. We also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the foreign balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are intended to be repatriated to the United States. No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings. The cash that our foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $7.8 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, management believes that is has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. During 2011, the Company contributed approximately $132 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $45 million to its non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2012, the Companys cash contribution requirements for its U.S. plan are not expected to be significant. The Companys cash contribution requirements for its non U.S. plans are expected to be approximately $50 million, although the ultimate amounts to be contributed to the U.S. and non U.S. plans depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors . Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations relating to continuing operations as of December 31, 2011 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $488 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 5,256.5 $ 90.4 $ 1,429.2 $ 1,505.4 $ 2,231.5 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 48.7 8.0 13.2 8.1 19.4 Total Long Term Debt 5,305.2 98.4 1,442.4 1,513.5 2,250.9 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital LeaseObligations (c) 955.4 151.8 260.9 212.0 330.7 Operating Lease Obligations (d) 780.2 195.3 279.9 170.8 134.2 Other: Purchase Obligations (e) 959.5 859.2 56.4 43.7 0.2 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (f) 3, 036.0 656.9 626.8 1,752.3 Total $ 11,036.3 $ 1,304.7 $ 2,696.5 $ 2,566.8 $ 4,468.3 (a) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. 54 Table of Contents (c) Interest payments on long term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2011. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. (d) As described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the schedule above. (e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company related to continuing operations as of December 31, 2011. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period ($ in millions) Total AmountsCommitted Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More Than5 Years Guarantees $ 330.0 $ 242.8 $ 69.0 $ 11.8 $ 6.4 Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Companys obligations and or performance requirements related to specific transactions. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial statements. In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Companys products or claims alleging that Company products infringe third party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual commitments table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. The Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danahers Amended and Restated By laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights 55 Table of Contents and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters. In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive and consequential, as well as compensatory damages. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material effect on its financial statements. While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover certain of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. For general and products liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a reserve for these contingencies. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk insurance professionals where appropriate. In addition, outside risk insurance professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. Reserve estimates are adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. If the Companys self insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Please see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self insurance and litigation liability. For a discussion of additional risks related to legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 56 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts Receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the allowances for doubtful accounts and, therefore, net income. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent managements best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Companys trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios based on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on accounts previously determined to be uncollectible increase the allowances. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and net earnings would be adversely impacted. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired Intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does amortize certain identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, over the estimated useful life of the identified asset. On an annual basis (the first day of the Companys fiscal fourth quarter) the Company estimates the fair value of each of its reporting units and compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting units goodwill has been impaired. If circumstances or events prior to the date of the required annual assessment indicate that, in managements judgment, it is more likely than not that there has been diminution of fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, the Company performs an impairment analysis at the time of such circumstance or event. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiples determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Companys reporting units in addition to market available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. Once completed, the results of the income and market approaches are reconciled and compared. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and 57 Table of Contents terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, if actual results are not consistent with managements estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 28 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from approximately $7 million to approximately $3.7 billion. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2011 indicated that in all instances, the fair value of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 11% to approximately 560%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units ranged from approximately zero to approximately 494%. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth. Contingent Liabilities. As discussed above under Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under Legal Proceedings. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Revenue Recognition: The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectability of the balance must be reasonably assured. Refer to Note 1 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys revenue recognition policies. Although most of the Companys sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for sales recognition purposes, and, if so, how the sales price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize sales for each element. For fiscal 2011 and future periods, revenues for contractual arrangements consisting of multiple elements (i.e. deliverables) are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand alone basis and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Companys control. The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold on a stand alone basis or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable. The Companys estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements. For transactions entered into prior to fiscal year 2011, revenue for arrangements with multiple elements is recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists (or in the case of software related products, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value) and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Companys control. A portion of the Companys revenues relate to lease payment arrangements, which require the Company to evaluate whether to account for the arrangement as an operating or sales type lease. Certain of the Companys lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. 58 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation: The Company accounts for stock based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For a discussion of the Companys stock based compensation accounting practices, refer Note 17 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based payment awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, the Companys equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If the Companys actual forfeiture rate during a reporting period is materially different than its estimate, the Companys earnings may be significantly impacted as the Company records the effect of actual experience in the period it occurs. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are entitled to health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company measures its pension and post retirement plans assets and obligations as of the end of each year to determine the funded status of each plan. The Company recognizes an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status in its balance sheet. Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and are reported in comprehensive income. Accounting standards require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans be computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, changes in the assumptions (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $125 million ($78 million on an after tax basis) and the non U.S. net obligation by $77 million ($58 million on an after tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2011. For 2011, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the U.S. plan has been estimated at 8%. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets for 2011 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non U.S. plans for 2011 would have increased $8 million (or $5 million on an after tax basis). The Company intends to use an expected long term rate of return assumption of 7.5% for 2012 for its U.S. plan. The Companys non U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.90%. For a discussion of the Companys 2011 and anticipated 2012 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Requirements. Income Taxes: The Companys income tax expense represents the current tax liability for the year and the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Companys tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Judgment is required in estimating valuation allowances. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the 59 Table of Contents impact of tax planning strategies, and can also be impacted by changes to tax laws. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Companys tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by recognizing the financial statement effects of a tax position only when, based upon the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company generally re evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and recognizes an uncertain tax benefit when: (i) there is completion of tax audit; (ii) there is a change in applicable tax law including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) there is an expiration of the statute of limitations. An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $25 million. New Accounting Standards In September 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued requiring additional disclosures about an employers participation in multiemployer retirement benefit plans. The amended disclosures, which are to be applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented, are effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. As the new guidance is related to disclosure only, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In September 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued which allows entities to perform a qualitative assessment on goodwill impairment to determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed in interim and annual periods for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The implementation of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In June 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued which requires entities to present comprehensive income, which is currently presented in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity, either as a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or as two separate but consecutive statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. As this new guidance is related to presentation only, the implementation in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In May 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued as a result of joint efforts by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board to develop a single, converged fair value framework on how to measure fair value and on what disclosures to provide about fair value measurements. The guidance is largely consistent with existing fair value measurement principles and is effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Companys adoption of this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 60 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Danahers financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Companys MD&A is divided into four main sections: Overview Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Critical Accounting Estimates OVERVIEW General Please see Item 1. Business General for a discussion of Danahers objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2011, approximately 58% of Danahers sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a global business, Danahers operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry specific economic and political factors. Danahers geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its products and services, typically helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Companys individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of the Companys geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of challenges and opportunities, including rapid technological development in most of the Companys served markets, the expansion of opportunities in emerging markets, trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force and consolidation of the Companys competitors. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Companys long term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high growth geographies and high growth product segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Companys sales force and continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer facing resources (particularly in emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil) in order to be responsive to the Companys customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Companys operations. Business Performance and Outlook While differences exist among the Companys businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Companys products and services increased in 2011 as compared to 2010 resulting in aggregate year over year sales growth. In addition, the Companys previous investment in sales growth initiatives and the other business specific factors discussed below contributed to year over year sales growth. Geographically, year over year sales growth rates during 2011 were led primarily by China and other emerging markets. Sales growth rates in developed markets were led by North America. Providing no significant deterioration in general economic conditions occurs, the Company expects sales from existing businesses to continue to grow on a year over year basis during 2012 but at a moderating rate from that experienced during 2011, particularly in the Industrial Technologies segment, and to a lesser extent, the Test & Measurement segment. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. (Beckman Coulter) as discussed below provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Companys Life Sciences and Diagnostics segment by expanding the businesses geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the areas of clinical diagnostics and life sciences research, and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. As Beckman Coulter is integrated into the Company, the Company also expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Beckman Coulter. For a discussion of the acquisitions impact on the Company and segment results, please refer to the Results of Operations section of this MD&A. 30 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures On June 30, 2011, following the successful completion of the Companys tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter, the Company completed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter by merging one of its indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries with and into Beckman Coulter such that Beckman Coulter became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Beckman Coulter develops, manufactures and markets products that simplify and automate complex biomedical testing. Beckman Coulters diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and produce information used by physicians to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Scientists use its life science research instruments to study complex biological problems including causes of disease and potential new therapies or drugs. Beckman Coulter had revenues of approximately $3.7 billion in 2010, and is included in the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The Company paid approximately $5.5 billion in cash (net of approximately $450 million cash acquired) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter and assumed approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. The Company financed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter using (1) approximately $2.3 billion of available cash, (2) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $966 million from the underwritten public offering of the Companys common stock on June 21, 2011, (3) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $1.8 billion from the underwritten public offering of senior unsecured notes on June 23, 2011, and (4) net proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program prior to the closing of the acquisition. In addition to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter during 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of thirteen other businesses (including the acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market), for total consideration of $669 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The additional businesses acquired manufacture and distribute products and or provide services in the product identification, water quality, life sciences and diagnostic, test and measurement, retail petroleum and dental markets and were acquired to complement existing units of the Industrial Technologies, Environmental, Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement and Dental segments. The aggregate annual sales of the thirteen businesses acquired at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $325 million. In April 2011, the Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace (PSA) business for a sale price of $680 million in cash. This business, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment and supplies safety, security and electric power components to commercial and military aerospace markets globally, had annual revenues of $377 million in 2010. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company reported an after tax gain on the sale of approximately $202 million or $0.29 per diluted share. In November 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its integrated scanning system business (the Accu Sort businesses or ASI) for a sale price of approximately $135 million in cash, and the sale was consummated in January 2012. In addition, in December 2011, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Kollmorgen Electro Optical (KEO) business for a sale price of approximately $210 million in cash, and the sale was consummated in February 2012. These businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies segment. ASI supplies bar code scanning and dimensional measurement systems and KEO designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates highly engineered, stabilized electro optical/ISR systems that integrate into submarines, surface ships and ground vehicles. The businesses had combined annual revenues of $275 million in 2011. The Company expects to reflect an aggregate after tax gain on the sale of these businesses of approximately $93 million or $0.13 per diluted share in its first quarter 2012 results in connection with the closing of these transactions. The Company has reported the PSA, ASI and KEO businesses as discontinued operations in this Form 10 K. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect these businesses as discontinued operations and the assets and liabilities of these businesses have been reclassified as held for sale for all periods presented. 31 Table of Contents During 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which included a 50% ownership position in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex joint venture (AB Sciex) and a 100% ownership position in the Molecular Devices business (Molecular Devices). In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. In addition, during 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (Cooper), combining certain of the Companys hand tool manufacturing and distribution businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (Apex). For a full discussion of the Companys 2010 acquisition activity and the Apex joint venture, refer Liquidity and Capital Resources Investing Activities. 2011 Restructuring Activities Consistent with the Companys approach of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, and in light of the uncertain macro economic environment, the Company incurred $179 million (including $120 million in the fourth quarter) of costs associated with restructuring activities. Included in the total restructuring costs are costs associated with the integration and restructuring of the Beckman Coulter business subsequent to the acquisition. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 28.0% compared to 2010. Sales from existing businesses increased 7.0% on a year over year basis. The impact of currency translation increased reported sales by 2.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, weaker against other major currencies during 2011 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2010. The sales increase from acquired businesses more than offset the year over year sales decline attributable to the 2010 contribution of businesses to the Apex joint venture and on a net basis increased reported sales by 18.5%. In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses, (2) 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture, and (3) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period to period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) and (b) the period to period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under managements control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long term performance difficult. The Company excludes the effect of the 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture because the Company did not recognize sales from those businesses in 2011. Operating profit margins were 16.3% for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 160 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquisitions (net of the favorable impact to operating profit margin of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture in July 2010) adversely impacted operating margin comparisons by 110 basis points. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to acquisition related inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points. 32 Table of Contents Operating profit margins were 16.3% in the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 13.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during 2010 is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons also benefited from approximately 160 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. The favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies in the third quarter 2009 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 75 basis points. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses, 2009 divestitures and the operating profit margin impact of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture in 2010 adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by approximately 65 basis points. 2010 acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in 2009) also adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The Company deems acquisition related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Companys larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period. Business Segments The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Test & Measurement $ 3,390.9 $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 Environmental 2,939.6 2,738.0 2,418.7 Life Sciences & Diagnostics 4,627.4 2,298.3 1,484.9 Dental 2,011.2 1,824.6 1,657.0 Industrial Technologies 3,121.4 2,540.6 2,126.9 Businesses contributed to Apex joint venture 315.6 607.9 Total $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 TEST & MEASUREMENT The Companys Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments and monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications and enterprise networks and related services. The segments products are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Also included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Companys mobile tool and wheel service businesses. Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 3,390.9 $ 2,832.9 $ 2,221.3 Operating profit 751.2 572.9 301.4 Depreciation and amortization 126.6 107.8 93.5 Restructuring and other related charges 18.8 67.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 22.2 % 20.2 % 13.6 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 3.7 % 3.8 % 4.2 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.6 % 3.0 % 33 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 9.5 % 17.0 % Acquisitions 8.0 % 10.5 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % Total 19.5 % 27.5 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2011. During 2011, sales in the segments instrument businesses grew on a year over year basis due to increased demand for oscilloscopes and service and installation tools, partially offset by year over year declines in sales attributable to products serving the video end markets. Instrument sales grew in all major geographies during the year led by Asia and other emerging markets. Instrument sales grew primarily during the first three quarters of 2011 as fourth quarter 2011 sales were essentially flat compared to 2010. Sales of instruments are expected to continue to grow during 2012 on year over year basis, albeit at a rate lower than was experienced during 2011. Sales in the segments communications businesses also grew during 2011 on a year over year basis, primarily in North America, as a result of strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Global demand for network security and analysis solutions was also robust in 2011. Operating profit margins increased 200 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 220 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 20 basis points. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. During 2010, demand increased significantly for the business core instruments, including oscilloscopes, thermography products and digital multi meters. Sales were strong in all major geographies, with particular strength in China. In addition, distributor inventory reductions that occurred in the first three quarters of 2009 due to the recessionary economic conditions did not continue into 2010 which positively impacted the year over year comparisons. Sales from existing businesses in the segments communications businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 on a year over year basis driven by strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Operating profit margins increased 660 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 265 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. 2010 acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges recorded in 2009) favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points as such charges were greater in 2009 than in 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 130 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. ENVIRONMENTAL The Companys Environmental segment provides products that help protect customers water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Danahers water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure, potable, and waste water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications. Danahers retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market. 34 Table of Contents Environmental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 2,939.6 $ 2,738.0 $ 2,418.7 Operating profit 622.7 564.3 471.0 Depreciation and amortization 45.9 45.9 43.1 Restructuring and other related charges 7.5 31.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 21.2 % 20.6 % 19.5 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 1.6 % 1.7 % 1.8 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.3 % 1.3 % Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 4.0 % 10.5 % Acquisitions 1.5 % 3.0 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % (0.5 %) Total 7.5 % 13.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. Strong demand during the first half of 2011 for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines in the municipal and industrial markets moderated slightly during the second half of 2011. While demand in the China municipal market increased on a year over year basis during 2011, the rate of revenue growth for the year declined compared to the 2010 growth rate. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a low double digit rate on a year over year basis as municipal markets returned to growth in the second half of the year, and in particular during the fourth quarter, after having declined in the first half of 2011. Sales in the segments ultraviolet water treatment product line are expected to decline in the first quarter 2012 on a year over year basis due, in large part, to a difficult prior year comparison resulting from strong industrial sales in the first quarter 2011. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew at a low double digit rate on a year over year basis primarily due to the addition of new customers in the U.S. market and to a lesser extent to continued international expansion. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail/commercial petroleum equipment businesses declined at a low single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. The year over year sales decline during the period is primarily attributable to 2010 performance dynamics. The business generated strong sales of payment and point of sale retail solutions product offerings in 2010, particularly the first half of 2010, driven by deadlines for compliance with enhanced industry security standards. During 2011, increased demand for the business automatic tank gauge products and dispensing equipment in all major geographies resulted in year over year sales growth that partially offset the unfavorable impact of the difficult prior year comparison. Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 70 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 10 basis points. 35 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments water quality businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Demand for the businesses laboratory and process instrumentation product lines was led by industrial markets and was stronger in all major geographies as compared to 2009. Sales in the business ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a high single digit rate during 2010. Solid year over year growth in the product lines industrial and residential applications was partially offset by a difficult prior year comparison associated with a significant drinking water treatment project that favorably impacted revenues throughout 2009 and into the first half of 2010. Sales in the business chemical treatment solutions product line also grew during 2010 as compared to 2009 due, in part, to continuing expansion of the chemical treatment solutions product line outside of the U.S. market. Sales from existing businesses in the segments retail/commercial petroleum equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009. Strong North American demand during 2010 for the business payment and point of sale retail solutions products was driven by enhanced industry security standards deadlines and contributed significantly to the year over year sales growth. Demand for dispensing equipment also increased in all major geographic regions due to an increase in capital spending by customers. Sales declines in the business vapor recovery product offerings in North America, primarily due to regulatory compliance deadlines in 2009 compared to 2010, partially offset these increases. Operating profit margins increased 110 basis points in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins during the period is primarily a result of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 100 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 55 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons, partially offsetting these favorable year over year factors. Incremental year over year investments in 2010 compared to 2009 associated with the segments emerging market growth initiatives also negatively impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons. LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS The Companys diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. The Companys life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components to gain a better understanding of complex biological processes. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions use these tools to study the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 4,627.4 $ 2,298.3 $ 1,484.9 Operating profit 402.3 227.9 179.6 Depreciation and amortization 297.2 90.7 56.6 Restructuring and other related charges 100.9 16.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 8.7 % 9.9 % 12.1 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 6.4 % 3.9 % 3.8 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 2.2 % 1.1 % 36 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 7.0 % 9.0 % Acquisitions 91.0 % 46.0 % Currency exchange rates 3.5 % Total 101.5 % 55.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. The significant growth related to acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011 which significantly expanded the segments product and service offerings, as further described below. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation and new instrument placements, primarily in Europe, China and other Asian markets. Demand for the business compact blood gas analyzer also remained strong, particularly in emerging markets. Increased European and emerging market demand for the business cardiac care instruments also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments pathology diagnostics business also grew at a high single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of increased demand for advanced staining instruments and consumables, as well as higher sales of core histology systems and consumables, primarily in North America and emerging markets, and to a lesser extent, Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has significantly expanded the segments product portfolio in the area of clinical diagnostics through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings. Sales from existing businesses in the segments microscopy businesses grew at a mid single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of strong demand for confocal and compound instrumentation serving the life sciences research and industrial markets, particularly in China and the emerging markets, and to lesser extent, Europe. A difficult prior year comparison resulting from first quarter 2010 sales associated with Japanese economic stimulus funding partially reduced the reported sales growth for 2011. Strong demand for the business broad range of mass spectrometers serving both the academic and proteomic research markets as well as the applied markets resulted in a low double digit growth rate from sales from existing businesses in the segments mass spectrometry business during 2011 as compared to 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the mass spectrometry business grew in all major geographies during 2011 led by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region and North America and to a lesser extent Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has also expanded the segments product portfolio in the area of life sciences research through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings. Operating profit margins decreased 120 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquisitions, primarily related to costs associated with Beckman Coulters restructuring and integration activities, adversely impacted segment operating profit margins by 295 basis points. Acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) also adversely impacted operating profit margins by 95 basis points. Higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, favorably impacted year over year comparisons by 270 basis points. The Company expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System to Beckman Coulter and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Beckman Coulter. Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales increased during 2011 primarily as a result of the increase in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. In addition, as a majority of the Beckman Coulter customers enter into operating type lease arrangements for the use of the business instrumentation, depreciation expense increased on a year over year basis. Depreciation and amortization expense in the segment is expected to continue to be higher than the segments historical depreciation and amortization expense levels for these same reasons. 37 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Sales growth from acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in January 2010. Year over year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the segments acute care diagnostics business grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due primarily to strong demand in all major geographies for a new version of the business compact blood gas analyzer. Increased European demand for the business cardiac care instruments as well as continued strong consumable sales related to the business installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation also contributed to year over year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segments life sciences instrumentation and pathology diagnostics businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2010 as compared 2009. Year over year growth was driven primarily by strong demand in all major geographies for new instruments and consumables in the pathology diagnostics business. Increased sales of compound and stereo microscopy equipment serving the life sciences research and industrial markets also contributed to the growth. Japanese economic stimulus funding also positively impacted 2010 sales as purchases were required to be completed by March 2010 in order to be eligible for Japanese stimulus funding. Operating profit margins decreased 220 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. Acquisition related charges during 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances, primarily related to the AB Sciex and Molecular Devices acquisitions, as well as 2010 transaction costs deemed significant by the Company (in each case net of comparable acquisition related charges and costs recorded in 2009) adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 270 basis points as such charges and costs were greater in 2010 than in 2009. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses had an adverse impact of 265 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 50 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. DENTAL The Companys Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of equipment, consumables and services for the dental market, focused on driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. Dental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 2,011.2 $ 1,824.6 $ 1,657.0 Operating profit before Align gain 236.1 203.3 130.8 Impact of Align gain 85.1 Total operating profit 236.1 203.3 215.9 Depreciation and amortization 94.0 81.7 71.3 Restructuring and other related charges 28.3 43.8 Operating profit as a % of sales 11.7 % 11.1 % 13.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 4.7 % 4.5 % 4.3 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 1.4 % 2.6 % 38 Table of Contents Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 4.5 % 4.5 % Acquisitions 2.5 % 6.5 % Currency exchange rates 3.0 % (1.0 %) Total 10.0 % 10.0 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses grew at a mid single digit rate in 2011 driven primarily by increased demand for general dentistry consumables and orthodontic products and, to a lesser extent, infection control products. Sales in the dental consumables business grew in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental equipment business grew on a year over year basis at a mid single digit rate due to strong imaging and instrument product demand. Increased sales of imaging products were led by North America, and to lesser extent, the emerging markets, while instrument sales growth was driven largely by North America and Europe. Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements, including cost reduction actions in the dental equipment businesses, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments increased operating profit margin by 95 basis points on a year over year basis. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points. 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses were essentially flat in 2010 as compared to 2009. Robust demand for orthodontia products throughout 2010 in addition to increased sales of infection control products were offset by weak demand for general dentistry consumables (primarily during the first three quarters of 2010) primarily as a result of adjustments to inventory levels in distribution channels that occurred during those periods. Demand in the general dentistry consumable businesses increased sequentially in the fourth quarter 2010 as inventories in the distribution channels returned to more normalized levels. Sales from existing businesses in the segments dental equipment businesses grew at a low double digit rate and increased in all major product categories during 2010 as compared to 2009. Growth was led by increased sales in the imaging product lines as a result of strong demand for 3D equipment and a new digital x ray sensor. Year over year demand also increased for the business instruments and treatment units. Imaging product sales were particularly strong in North America and Asia, while instrument and treatment unit sales were particularly strong in Europe. Operating profit margins decreased 190 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in operating profit margins was largely due to the favorable settlement of litigation with Align Technologies that occurred in 2009 and adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 515 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses had a net adverse impact of 10 basis points on year over year operating profit margin comparisons. The favorable impact of higher sales volumes during 2010 compared to 2009, cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 145 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010 partially offset these adverse impacts. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES The Companys Industrial Technologies segment designs and manufactures components and systems that are typically incorporated by original equipment manufacturers and system integrators for sale into a diverse set of applications and end markets. The businesses in this segment also provide service and support, including helping customers with integration and installation and providing services to ensure performance and up time. The Industrial 39 Table of Contents Technologies segment consists of two strategic lines of business, product identification and motion, as well as the sensors and controls, defense and engine retarder businesses. The Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business in April 2011, its Accu Sort business in January 2012 and its Kollmorgen Electro Optical business in February 2012. These businesses were previously reported as part of the Industrial Technologies segment and all current and prior year results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued operations. Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data ($ in millions) For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 3,121.4 $ 2,540.6 $ 2,126.9 Operating profit 655.0 513.3 297.5 Depreciation and amortization 65.8 51.5 51.5 Restructuring and other related charges 23.8 52.7 Operating profit as a % of sales 21.0 % 20.2 % 14.0 % Depreciation and amortization as a % of sales 2.1 % 2.0 % 2.4 % Restructuring and other related charges as a % of sales 0.8 % 2.5 % Components of Sales Growth 2011 vs. 2010 2010 vs. 2009 Existing businesses 11.5 % 19.0 % Acquisitions 9.5 % 0.5 % Currency exchange rates 2.0 % Total 23.0 % 19.5 % 2011 COMPARED TO 2010 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 2.5% to sales growth on a year over year basis during 2011 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a high single digit rate on a year over year basis during 2011, primarily due to continued strong demand for core marking and coding equipment. Consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies. The 2011 acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging and design and production market, provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding the businesses product line diversity and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a high single digit rate during 2011. Sales growth rates declined in the second half of 2011 compared to growth rates in the first half of 2011, in part due to easier prior year comparisons in the first half of 2011 as well as the impact of slowing demand on a global basis in the second half of 2011, primarily in the technology related and solar end markets. Year over year sales increases in engineered solutions and linear and mechanical motion products during the second half of 2011 more than offset sales declines in industrial automation that occurred primarily in the fourth quarter 2011. Sales grew in all major geographies. Year over year sales are expected to decline in the first quarter 2012 due, in part, to softness in technology related end markets and also due to anticipated lower demand for engineered solutions. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a mid teens rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 due to generally higher demand in the majority of end markets served. Operating profit margins increased 80 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year over year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 135 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points. 40 Table of Contents 2010 COMPARED TO 2009 Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth during 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Sales from existing businesses in the segments product identification businesses grew at a mid teens rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased demand for core marking and coding equipment as customers released capital spending that had been delayed from prior years. Strong consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year over year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies with particular strength in Europe and the emerging markets. Sales from existing businesses in the segments motion businesses grew at a double digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 as demand was strong in the majority of end markets served due primarily to the general economic recovery. While growth was generally broad based, industrial automation led the growth with strong sales of advanced motor and drive product offerings. Sales increased in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segments other businesses grew collectively at a high teens digit rate during 2010 as compared to 2009 due to generally higher demand in most major end markets. Operating profit margins increased 620 basis points during 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase in operating profit margins reflects the impact of higher sales volumes in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities. Year over year operating margin comparisons for 2010 also benefited from approximately 175 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred in 2009 as compared to 2010. The divestiture of certain lower margin businesses and product lines in the fourth quarter 2009 in connection with the Companys restructuring activities also favorably impacted year over year operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points. COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 Cost of sales 7,913.9 6,145.5 5,446.6 Gross profit 8,176.6 6,404.5 5,070.1 Gross profit margin 50.8 % 51.0 % 48.2 % Gross profit margins decreased 20 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The combination of the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, which has lower overall gross profit margins than the Companys existing businesses, and 35 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010 relating primarily to the AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions) adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by 45 basis points. Higher year over year sales volumes and continued productivity improvements partially offset these adverse impacts. The gross profit margin comparison also reflects the benefit of 65 basis points from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter 2010 of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses, which had lower average gross profit margins than the remainder of the Company. Gross profit margins for 2010 increased 280 basis points from 2009. The year over year increase reflects the impact of higher sales volumes as compared to 2009, year over year cost savings attributable to the Companys 2009 restructuring activities and 90 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Gross profit margins during 2010 also benefited from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter of certain of the Companys hand tools businesses. Acquisition related charges recorded in 2010 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by approximately 30 basis points. 41 Table of Contents OPERATING EXPENSES For the Year Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sales $ 16,090.5 $ 12,550.0 $ 10,516.7 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses 4,607.7 3,603.7 3,115.3 Research and development (R&D) expenses 1,018.5 774.0 600.3 SG&A as a % of sales 28.6 % 28.7 % 29.6 % R&D as a % of sales 6.3 % 6.2 % 5.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 10 basis points on a year over year basis for 2011 as compared to 2010. Increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2011 was partially offset by 60 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 and continued investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives. In addition, change in control payments to Beckman Coulter employees in connection with the closing of the Beckman Coulter acquisition adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales during 2011. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 90 basis points on a year over year basis in 2010 as compared to 2009. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2010 reflects the benefit of increased leverage of the Companys cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2010 as compared to 2009, in addition to 70 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2009 as compared to 2010. Incremental year over year investments in the Companys sales growth initiatives, increased commission costs due to the higher sales volumes and the dilutive effect of certain recently acquired businesses and those businesses higher relative operating expense structures partially offset these year over year improvements. Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points on a year over year basis during 2011. Recently acquired businesses with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives primarily contributed to the increase. The increase also reflects the contribution of most of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture in the third quarter of 2010, as the contributed businesses had historically lower research and development spending as a percentage of sales relative to the overall Company average. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales increased 50 basis points during 2010 on a year over year basis. The increase is primarily attributable to the contribution of the Companys hand tools businesses to the Apex joint venture. Overall research and development costs also increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to recently acquired businesses, primarily AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, with higher average research and development expenditures as well as continued investment in the Companys new product development initiatives. EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE In July 2010 the Company closed on the formation of the Apex joint venture. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated its contributed businesses and commenced accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. The equity in the earnings of Apex, reflecting the Companys 50% ownership position subsequent to the formation, is reflected in the earnings from unconsolidated joint venture caption in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 42 Table of Contents The impact on the Companys results of operations from (1) the contributed business prior to the formation of Apex, and (2) the Companys equity in the earnings of Apex subsequent to the formation of Apex, is reflected in the table below ($ in millions): For the Year Ended December 31 2011 2010 2009 Prior to formation of Apex Sales $ 315.6 $ 607.9 Operating profit 41.5 63.9 Subsequent to formation of Apex Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture $ 66.8 22.8 Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture increased $44 million for 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily due to a full year of earnings in 2011 as compared to only six months of earnings in 2010 following the closing of the formation of the joint venture in July 2010. INTEREST COSTS For a description of the Companys outstanding indebtedness, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities and Indebtedness below. Interest expense of $142 million in 2011 was approximately $24 million higher than 2010 interest expense of $117 million. The increase in interest expense during 2011 results primarily from the additional debt incurred during the second quarter of 2011 in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. The Companys average commercial paper borrowings were also higher in 2011 as compared to 2010, in large part due to borrowings used to partially fund the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. Interest expense in 2010 was essentially flat compared to interest expense in 2009. Interest income of $5 million, $6 million and $5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was essentially flat on a year over year basis. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect managements assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Companys financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Companys effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period to period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, please refer to Cash and Cash Requirements below. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitation, reserves are adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 43 Table of Contents Year Over Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Companys effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 20.9%, 22.9% and 18.0%, respectively. The Companys effective tax rate for each of 2011, 2010 and 2009 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due principally to the Companys earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition, the effective tax rate in 2011 is lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions as a result of a tax ruling, court decision, and lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 240 basis points in 2011. The effective tax rate of 22.9% in 2010 is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 60 basis points in 2010. The Companys 2009 effective tax rate of 18.0% is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 730 basis points in 2009. The effective tax rate for 2012 is expected to be approximately 24%. The anticipated increase from the 2011 rate is partially attributable to the research and experimentation credit that expired at the end of 2011. INFLATION The effect of broad based inflation on the Companys revenues and net earnings was not significant in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its financial statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Companys broad based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed rate and variable rate debt. A change in interest rates on long term debt impacts the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt but not the Companys earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2011, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Companys fixed rate long term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from its underlying common stock) by approximately $162 million. However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Companys fixed rate long term debt does not affect the Companys results of operations or stockholders equity. As of December 31, 2011, the Companys variable rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar commercial paper borrowings and to a lesser extent, floating rate senior notes due 2013. As a result the Companys primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys outstanding commercial paper balances 44 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2011. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2011, a 150% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $2 million. A 150% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2011. In 2011, a 65% increase in average market interest rates on the Companys $300 million floating rate senior notes due 2013 would have increased the Companys interest expense by approximately $1 million. A 65% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Companys actual coupon interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2011. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. The Eurobond Notes described below provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Companys European net asset position. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Companys net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes, is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2011 (net of the translation effect of the Companys Eurobond Notes) would result in a reduction of stockholders equity of approximately $584 million. The Company also faces exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its costs are incurred, and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. Currency exchange rates increased reported 2011 sales by 2.5% on a year over year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, slightly weaker against other major currencies during 2011 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2010. The impact on reported sales due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the fourth quarter 2011 was more than offset by the impact of the U.S. dollars weakness against other major currencies during the first three quarters of 2011. As a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, if the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2011 prevail throughout 2012, currency exchange rates would negatively impact 2012 reported sales by approximately 2.0% relative to the Companys performance in 2011. Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would have a further negative impact on the Companys reported sales and results of operations. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Companys sales and results of operations on an overall basis. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, the Company acquired an existing currency swap agreement. The agreement requires the Company to purchase approximately 184 million Japanese Yen (JPY/&yen;) at a rate of $1 / &yen;102.25 on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate Japanese Yen purchase commitment was approximately &yen;14.1 billion (approximately $182 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2011). The currency swap does not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result changes in the fair value of the currency swap are reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company recorded a pre tax charge of approximately $8 million related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap. 45 Table of Contents Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers, and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. The Companys emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Companys customers. The Companys businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and only with high quality financial institutions and limits its exposure at any one institution. Equity Price Risk The Companys available for sale investment portfolio includes equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Companys available for sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2011 would have reduced the fair value of the Companys available for sale investment portfolio by approximately $29 million. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 46 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Companys liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long term basis. Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity For the Years Ended December 31 ($ in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total operating cash flows from continuing operations $ 2,732.0 $ 2,018.7 $ 1,722.8 Payments for additions to property, plant and equipment (334.5 ) (191.1 ) (175.4 ) Cash paid for acquisitions (6,210.8 ) (2,129.7 ) (703.5 ) Cash paid for other investments (66.8 ) Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations 680.1 Other sources 17.9 31.9 2.8 Net cash used in investing activities (5,847.3 ) (2,288.9 ) (942.9 ) Proceeds from the issuance of common stock 1,112.5 178.4 174.2 Repayments of long term debt (1,602.4 ) (9.4 ) (24.2 ) Proceeds from public debt offerings 1,785.8 744.6 Net proceeds (repayment) of borrowings with maturities of less than 90 days 854.0 (445.7 ) Payment of dividends (61.3 ) (52.2 ) (41.7 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,088.6 116.8 407.2 Operating cash flows from continuing operations, a key source of the Companys liquidity, increased $713 million, or approximately 35%, during 2011 as compared to 2010. Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash during 2011. The Company acquired fourteen businesses during 2011, including the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, for total consideration (net of cash acquired) of approximately $6.2 billion. The Company financed the $5.5 billion acquisition of Beckman Coulter using (1) approximately $2.3 billion of available cash, (2) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $966 million from the underwritten public offering of the Companys common stock on June 21, 2011, (3) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, of approximately $1.8 billion from the underwritten public offering of senior unsecured notes on June 23, 2011, and (4) net proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program prior to the closing of the acquisition. The Company also assumed approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness and acquired approximately $450 million of cash in connection with the acquisition. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company retired substantially all of the acquired Beckman Coulter debt using proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar commercial paper and recorded an approximate $33 million ($21 million, after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) charge to earnings due to make whole payments associated with the retirement of certain of the Beckman Coulter debt. In April 2011, the Company sold its Pacific Scientific Aerospace business for a sale price of $680 million in cash. The Companys 2011 restructuring activities used approximately $49 million in cash during 2011. 47 Table of Contents The Company contributed approximately $132 million in cash to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $45 million to the Companys non U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company held approximately $537 million of cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $2.7 billion for 2011, an increase of $713 million, or 35% as compared to 2010. The year over year change in operating cash flows from 2010 to 2011 was primarily attributable to the following factors: Earnings from continuing operations increased by $217 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. Included in 2010 earnings from continuing operations is a non cash gain of $291 million recognized on the formation of the Apex joint venture, which gain did not recur in 2011 which further contributes to the year over year operating cash flow comparison. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $247 million in 2011 compared to 2010. The increased depreciation and amortization expense impacts earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable provided $63 million in operating cash flows during 2011, a $258 million improvement over 2010 during which these items used $195 million in operating cash flows. Cash income tax payments, net of refunds, from continuing operations increased by $21 million during 2011 as compared to 2010. Net cash payments for income taxes from continuing operations totaled $303 million and $282 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Partially offsetting these favorable cash flows during 2011 were additional pension contributions and employee benefit payments as compared to 2010. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $2.0 billion for 2010, an increase of $296 million, or 17% as compared to 2009. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the increase in earnings in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting this benefit was an investment in trade accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable which in the aggregate used $195 million of operating cash flows during 2010 as compared to contributing $214 million in operating cash flows during 2009. The increased use of cash reflects increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, partially offset by increased accounts payable levels, associated with increased business activity. In connection with the Companys restructuring activities, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing facilities, severing personnel and, in connection with acquisitions, integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with these activities. During 2011, the Company paid approximately $49 million related to its 2011 restructuring activities. During 2010, the Company paid approximately $110 million related to its 2009 restructuring activities. The Company anticipates cash payments of approximately $124 million during 2012 related to its 2011 restructuring activities. Please refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these expenditures. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $5.8 billion during 2011 compared to approximately $2.3 billion of net cash used in 2010 and approximately $943 million of net cash used in 2009. 48 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures 2011 Acquisitions and Divestitures For a discussion of the Companys 2011 acquisitions and divestitures please refer to Overview Acquisitions and Divestitures. 2010 Acquisitions and Apex Joint Venture On January 30, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which included a 50% ownership position in the AB Sciex joint venture and a 100% ownership position in Molecular Devices. In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. The aggregate purchase price for the combined transactions was $1.0 billion, including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. The aggregate sales of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in their last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition were approximately $650 million and these businesses now operate within the Companys Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices significantly expanded the Companys position in the life sciences and diagnostics business and in particular established a position in the mass spectrometry market. In addition to the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, the Company acquired seventeen businesses during 2010 for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the test and measurement, dental, environmental, life science and diagnostics, sensors and controls or product identification markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing businesses of the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Test & Measurement, Dental, Environmental and Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $440 million. On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc, combining certain of the Companys hand tools businesses with Coopers Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC. The 2009 sales, on a combined basis, of the two tools businesses contributed to Apex were approximately $1.2 billion. Each of Cooper and the Company owns a 50% interest in Apex and has an equal number of representatives on Apexs Board of Directors. Upon the closing of the transaction, Apex simultaneously obtained a credit facility and term debt financing and used $45 million of the term debt financing to purchase from the Company certain assets of the Companys hand tools business. In addition to the cash received for the purchase of these assets, the Company recorded a receivable from Apex of $45 million upon closing. The Company has collected the majority of this receivable as of December 31, 2011 and expects to collect the remaining outstanding balance during 2012. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated the financial results of its contributed businesses and began accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. In accordance with accounting standards applicable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries, the Company recognized a $291 million gain ($232 million or $0.34 per diluted share on an after tax basis) during the third quarter 2010 associated with the transaction reflecting the difference between the book value of the contributed business that was deconsolidated and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, including the 50% interest in Apex and the cash and receivables received from Apex in connection with the transaction. 2009 Acquisitions and Divestitures The Company acquired fifteen businesses during 2009 for consideration of approximately $704 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Each company acquired manufactures products and or provides services in the life sciences, dental, product identification, environmental or test and measurement markets. These businesses were acquired to complement existing businesses within the Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Dental, Industrial Technologies, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these fifteen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the companys revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $430 million. In addition, during 2009 the Company divested five businesses or product lines for approximately $10 million of net cash proceeds. The divested businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies and the former Tools and Components segments and had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $53 million in 2009. The Company recorded no significant gain or loss, either individually or in the aggregate, associated with these divestitures. The Company used the proceeds from these sales for general corporate purposes. 49 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In addition, capital expenditures are made for the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating type lease arrangements entered into with customers by certain of the Companys businesses. Capital expenditures totaled $334 million in 2011, $191 million in 2010 and $175 million in 2009. The increase in capital spending in 2011 is primarily due to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter and the associated capitalization of instruments subject to operating type leases through customer arrangements entered into in the second half of 2011. In 2012, the Company expects capital spending to approximate $550 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. The expected increase in capital expenditures in 2012 is primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter as the majority of the business customers enter into operating type lease arrangements for use of its instrumentation products. Financing Activities and Indebtedness Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and debt, excess tax benefits from stock based compensation, payments of principal on indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $2.1 billion during 2011 compared to $117 million of cash provided during 2010. The year over year change was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Financing Notes (as defined below) in June 2011. Total debt was $5.3 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010. The Companys debt as of December 31, 2011 was as follows: $977 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper; $647 million (500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (the Eurobond Notes); $300 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes due 2013 (the 2013 Notes); $400 million aggregate principal amount of 1.3% senior notes due 2014 (the 2014 Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior notes due 2016 (the 2016 Notes); $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes); $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.4% senior notes due 2019 (the 2019 Notes); $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.9% senior notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes and together with the 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, the 2011 Financing Notes); $380 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (LYONs); and $251 million of other borrowings. The 2011 Financing Notes, the Eurobond Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes are collectively referred to as the Notes. Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility The Company primarily satisfies any short term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flow and available cash through issuances of commercial paper under its U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs. Under these programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short term promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2.5 billion. Interest expense on the notes is paid at maturity and is generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. During 2011, the Company issued commercial paper under its U.S. program to fund a portion of the purchase price for Beckman Coulter and the retirement of substantially all of the Beckman Coulter debt (see below). As of December 31, 2011, borrowings outstanding under the Companys U.S. commercial paper program had a weighted average interest rate of 0.2% and a weighted average maturity of approximately 30 days. Commercial paper balances during the year carried interest at rates ranging between 0.1% and 0.2% and original maturities between 1 and 67 days. There was no commercial paper outstanding under the Euro program as of December 31, 2011 or at any other time during 2011. The Company classified its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs at December 31, 2011 as long term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility referenced below, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. 50 Table of Contents Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by a $2.5 billion unsecured multi year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 15, 2016 (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Under the Credit Facility, borrowings (other than bid loans) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Companys option) either (1) a LIBOR based rate plus a margin that varies according to the Companys long term debt credit rating (the Eurodollar Rate), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%, plus in each case a margin that varies according to the Companys long term debt credit rating. Under the Credit Facility, in addition to certain initial fees the Company is obligated to pay a per annum commitment fee that varies according to its long term debt credit rating. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants. As of December 31, 2011, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the facility. In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit. The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Companys commercial paper program. The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would provide sufficient credit available under the facility to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures. The Companys ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of the Companys credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Companys credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program and the Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Companys ability to issue commercial paper. If the Companys access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, the Company would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and the Companys Credit Facility to provide short term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings. On June 17, 2011, the Company entered into a $3.0 billion 364 day unsecured revolving credit facility (the 364 Day Facility) in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company reduced the commitments under the 364 Day Facility from $3.0 billion to $2.2 billion effective as of June 27, 2011, from $2.2 billion to $1.5 billion effective as of July 21, 2011, from $1.5 billion to $1.0 billion effective as of October 1, 2011 and terminated the facility as of December 29, 2011. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 364 Day Facility at any time during the term of the facility. Other Long Term Indebtedness 2011 Financing Notes On June 23, 2011, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes, all of which are unsecured. The 2013 Notes were issued at 100% of their principal amount, will mature on June 21, 2013 and accrue interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.25% per year. The 2014 Notes were issued at 99.918% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2014 and accrue interest at the rate of 1.3% per year. The 2016 Notes were issued at 99.84% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2016 and accrue interest at the rate of 2.3% per year. The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.975% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2021 and accrue interest at the rate of 3.9% per year. The net proceeds from the 2011 Financing Notes offering, after deducting expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $1.8 billion and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company pays interest on the 2013 Notes quarterly in arrears on March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year. The Company pays interest on the 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes semi annually in arrears, on June 23 and December 23 of each year. 2019 Notes In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2019 Notes, which were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount, will mature on March 1, 2019 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.4% per annum. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $745 million. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company pays interest on the 2019 Notes semi annually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. 51 Table of Contents 2018 Notes In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2018 Notes, which were issued at 99.39% of their principal amount, will mature on January 15, 2018 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.625% per annum. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company pays interest on the 2018 Notes semi annually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15 of each year. Eurobond Notes On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the United States. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were 496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Companys outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. LYONs In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of the Companys common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24.0 million shares of the Companys common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2011, an aggregate of approximately 10 million shares of the Companys common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. As of December 31, 2011, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and or Company common stock, at the Companys option, on each of January 22, 2004 and January 22, 2011, which resulted in aggregate notes with an accreted value of approximately $1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash. Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2011. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity. Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to the Notes The Company may redeem some or all of the 2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2018 Notes and or the 2019 Notes at any time by paying the principal amount and a make whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Prior to March 23, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes by paying the principal amount and a make whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after March 23, 2021, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the Notes, each holder of Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of its Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest (100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes). A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture or comparable instrument. Except in connection with a change of control triggering event as described above, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. In addition, the Company may redeem the Eurobond notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed. The indentures and comparable instruments pursuant to which the Notes were issued each contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Companys operations and as of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 52 Table of Contents Beckman Coulter Indebtedness In connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, the Company also assumed indebtedness with a fair value of $1.6 billion (the Beckman Coulter Notes). During the third quarter of 2011, the Company retired substantially all of the Beckman Coulter Notes using proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar commercial paper and recorded an approximate $33 million ($21 million, after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) charge to earnings due to make whole payments associated with the extinguishment of certain of the Beckman Coulter Notes. The charge to earnings is reflected as loss on early extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For additional details regarding the Companys debt as of December 31, 2011 see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shelf Registration Statement The Company has a well known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement on Form S 3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. On June 21, 2011, the Company used this shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of 19,250,000 shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $51.75 per share. The net proceeds, after deducting expenses and the underwriters discount, were approximately $966 million and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for Beckman Coulter. On June 23, 2011, the Company also used this shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include, but are not limited to, reduction or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations; acquisitions; capital expenditures; share repurchases and dividends; and working capital. Stock Repurchase Program On May 11, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Companys repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Companys management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Companys equity compensation plans (or any successor plans) and for other corporate purposes. Neither the Company nor any affiliated purchaser repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2011 or 2010. As of December 31, 2011, 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to this program. The Company expects to fund any future repurchases using the Companys available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. Dividends The Company declared a regular dividend of $0.025 per share that was paid on January 27, 2012 to holders of record on December 30, 2011. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2011 were approximately $61 million. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2011, the Company held $537 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an average weighted annual interest rate of 0.2%. $14 million of this amount was held within the United States and $523 million was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, pay taxes, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Companys common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but 53 Table of Contents in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper program or the Credit Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and or access the capital markets as needed. We also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the foreign balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are intended to be repatriated to the United States. No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings. The cash that our foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $7.8 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, management believes that is has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. During 2011, the Company contributed approximately $132 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $45 million to its non U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2012, the Companys cash contribution requirements for its U.S. plan are not expected to be significant. The Companys cash contribution requirements for its non U.S. plans are expected to be approximately $50 million, although the ultimate amounts to be contributed to the U.S. and non U.S. plans depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors . Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Companys contractual obligations relating to continuing operations as of December 31, 2011 under (1) long term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long term liabilities reflected on the Companys balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $488 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Total Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than5 Years ($ in millions) Debt & Leases: Long Term Debt Obligations (a)(b) $ 5,256.5 $ 90.4 $ 1,429.2 $ 1,505.4 $ 2,231.5 Capital Lease Obligations (b) 48.7 8.0 13.2 8.1 19.4 Total Long Term Debt 5,305.2 98.4 1,442.4 1,513.5 2,250.9 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt and Capital LeaseObligations (c) 955.4 151.8 260.9 212.0 330.7 Operating Lease Obligations (d) 780.2 195.3 279.9 170.8 134.2 Other: Purchase Obligations (e) 959.5 859.2 56.4 43.7 0.2 Other Long Term Liabilities Reflected on the Companys Balance Sheet Under GAAP (f) 3, 036.0 656.9 626.8 1,752.3 Total $ 11,036.3 $ 1,304.7 $ 2,696.5 $ 2,566.8 $ 4,468.3 (a) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table. 54 Table of Contents (c) Interest payments on long term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2011. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. (d) As described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the schedule above. (e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. (f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self insurance and litigation claims, post retirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon managements estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company related to continuing operations as of December 31, 2011. Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period ($ in millions) Total AmountsCommitted Less ThanOne Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More Than5 Years Guarantees $ 330.0 $ 242.8 $ 69.0 $ 11.8 $ 6.4 Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Companys obligations and or performance requirements related to specific transactions. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Companys financial statements. In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Companys products or claims alleging that Company products infringe third party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual commitments table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations. The Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danahers Amended and Restated By laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights 55 Table of Contents and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters. In addition to the litigation matters noted under Item 1. Business Regulatory Matters Environmental, Health & Safety, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Companys products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive and consequential, as well as compensatory damages. Based upon the Companys experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material effect on its financial statements. While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors and officers liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover certain of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. For general and products liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (stop loss insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self insured retention. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a reserve for these contingencies. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk insurance professionals where appropriate. In addition, outside risk insurance professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Companys specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. Reserve estimates are adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. If the Companys self insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Please see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self insurance and litigation liability. For a discussion of additional risks related to legal proceedings, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors. 56 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts Receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the allowances for doubtful accounts and, therefore, net income. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent managements best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Companys trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios based on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on accounts previously determined to be uncollectible increase the allowances. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and net earnings would be adversely impacted. Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Companys markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Companys control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Companys net earnings and financial condition. Acquired Intangibles. The Companys business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does amortize certain identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, over the estimated useful life of the identified asset. On an annual basis (the first day of the Companys fiscal fourth quarter) the Company estimates the fair value of each of its reporting units and compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting units goodwill has been impaired. If circumstances or events prior to the date of the required annual assessment indicate that, in managements judgment, it is more likely than not that there has been diminution of fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, the Company performs an impairment analysis at the time of such circumstance or event. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiples determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Companys reporting units in addition to market available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. Once completed, the results of the income and market approaches are reconciled and compared. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and 57 Table of Contents terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and managements judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, if actual results are not consistent with managements estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 28 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from approximately $7 million to approximately $3.7 billion. The Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2011 indicated that in all instances, the fair value of the Companys reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 11% to approximately 560%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Companys reporting units ranged from approximately zero to approximately 494%. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth. Contingent Liabilities. As discussed above under Legal Proceedings, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under Legal Proceedings. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Companys net earnings. Revenue Recognition: The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectability of the balance must be reasonably assured. Refer to Note 1 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Companys revenue recognition policies. Although most of the Companys sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for sales recognition purposes, and, if so, how the sales price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize sales for each element. For fiscal 2011 and future periods, revenues for contractual arrangements consisting of multiple elements (i.e. deliverables) are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand alone basis and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Companys control. The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold on a stand alone basis or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable. The Companys estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements. For transactions entered into prior to fiscal year 2011, revenue for arrangements with multiple elements is recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists (or in the case of software related products, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value) and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Companys control. A portion of the Companys revenues relate to lease payment arrangements, which require the Company to evaluate whether to account for the arrangement as an operating or sales type lease. Certain of the Companys lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. 58 Table of Contents Stock Based Compensation: The Company accounts for stock based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For a discussion of the Companys stock based compensation accounting practices, refer Note 17 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock based payment awards represent the Companys best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, the Companys equity based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If the Companys actual forfeiture rate during a reporting period is materially different than its estimate, the Companys earnings may be significantly impacted as the Company records the effect of actual experience in the period it occurs. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Companys employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are entitled to health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company measures its pension and post retirement plans assets and obligations as of the end of each year to determine the funded status of each plan. The Company recognizes an asset for a plans overfunded status or a liability for a plans underfunded status in its balance sheet. Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and are reported in comprehensive income. Accounting standards require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans be computed using actuarial valuations. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, changes in the assumptions (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) may affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $125 million ($78 million on an after tax basis) and the non U.S. net obligation by $77 million ($58 million on an after tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2011. For 2011, the expected long term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the U.S. plan has been estimated at 8%. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. If the expected long term rate of return on plan assets for 2011 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non U.S. plans for 2011 would have increased $8 million (or $5 million on an after tax basis). The Company intends to use an expected long term rate of return assumption of 7.5% for 2012 for its U.S. plan. The Companys non U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long term rate of return for the non U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.90%. For a discussion of the Companys 2011 and anticipated 2012 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Requirements. Income Taxes: The Companys income tax expense represents the current tax liability for the year and the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Companys tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Judgment is required in estimating valuation allowances. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the 59 Table of Contents impact of tax planning strategies, and can also be impacted by changes to tax laws. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the Companys tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by recognizing the financial statement effects of a tax position only when, based upon the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company generally re evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and recognizes an uncertain tax benefit when: (i) there is completion of tax audit; (ii) there is a change in applicable tax law including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) there is an expiration of the statute of limitations. An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 of approximately $25 million. New Accounting Standards In September 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued requiring additional disclosures about an employers participation in multiemployer retirement benefit plans. The amended disclosures, which are to be applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented, are effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. As the new guidance is related to disclosure only, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In September 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued which allows entities to perform a qualitative assessment on goodwill impairment to determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed in interim and annual periods for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The implementation of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In June 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued which requires entities to present comprehensive income, which is currently presented in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders Equity, either as a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or as two separate but consecutive statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. As this new guidance is related to presentation only, the implementation in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In May 2011, updated accounting guidance was issued as a result of joint efforts by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board to develop a single, converged fair value framework on how to measure fair value and on what disclosures to provide about fair value measurements. The guidance is largely consistent with existing fair value measurement principles and is effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Companys adoption of this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 will not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information required by this item is included under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 60 Table of Contents 
 
