FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20021216171357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
        Sealed Air Corporation issued the following press release on December 16, 2002:
        SADDLE BROOK, N.J., Monday, December 16, 2002Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) announced at an investor conference today that earnings per share for 2003 are anticipated to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.45 per share after giving effect to the recently announced settlement of asbestos-related litigation and assuming a continued recovery in the global economy.
Business
        Sealed Air Corporation is a leading global manufacturer of a wide range of food, protective and specialty packaging materials and systems, including such widely recognized brands as Bubble Wrap air cellular cushioning, Jiffy protective mailers and Cryovac food packaging products. For more information about Sealed Air Corporation, please visit the Company's website at www.sealedair.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
        Certain statements made by the Company in this press release may be forward-looking statements. These statements include comments as to future events and trends affecting the Company's business, which are based upon management's current expectations and are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "expects," "intends," "plans," "estimates" and similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to a number of factors, including changes in economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which the Company conducts business, factors affecting customers, raw material costs, acts of war or terrorism and successful negotiation and implementation of a definitive settlement agreement and legal proceedings, including those related to W. R. Grace & Co. A more extensive list and description of other factors can be found under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, which appears in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and in the Company's other publicly available filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 16, 2002
QuickLinks
SEALED AIR ANNOUNCES EARNINGS GUIDANCE
SIGNATURE


