FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20050222102013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01               Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On February 16, 2005, the Organization and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Sealed Air Corporation (the "Corporation") made the following decisions regarding the compensation of the executive officers who were named in the Summary Compensation Table of the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting and who are expected to be named in the Summary Compensation Table of the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its 2005 Annual Meeting.  Decisions with respect to the compensation of William V. Hickey, President and Chief Executive Officer, were made after consultation with the other non-management directors of the Corporation.
 
The Committee approved increases to the base salaries of the executive officers effective as of March 1, 2005.  The Committee also certified achievement of certain performance goals established early in 2004 under its Performance-Based Compensation Program.  The performance goals that were achieved related to 2004 diluted earnings per share and 2004 net income.  Based on the achievement of such goals, the Committee could approve a 2004 cash bonus for Mr. Hickey in the amount of up to $539,000 and could approve stock awards during 2005 under the current Contingent Stock Plan or under the new 2005 Contingent Stock Plan (described below) to each of the executive officers listed below in the amount of up to 42,900 shares of common stock.  Subject to such cap for Mr. Hickey's 2004 cash bonus, the Committee approved cash bonuses for all of the executive officers on February 16, 2005 based on the Committee's judgment regarding achievement of financial goals, including corporate operating profit and, where appropriate, divisional or regional operating profit, non-financial goals that were individually established for each of the executive officers during the first quarter of 2004, and individual performance during 2004.  Also, on February 16, 2005, the Committee granted an award to Mr. Hickey of 20,000 shares of common stock under the current Contingent Stock Plan.
2005 Base Salary Increases and 2004 Cash Bonuses
.
 
 
                The approved salaries and bonuses are as follows:
 
 
*Mr. Prosser's compensation is paid in British pounds.  The compensation shown for Mr. Prosser is based on 1 British pound equivalent to US$1.8855 as of February 16, 2005.
 
  On February 16, 2005, the Committee and the Board of Directors approved amendments to the Corporation's Performance-Based Compensation Program, subject to approval of such amendments by the Corporation's stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting.  Also on February 16, 2005, the Committee and the Board of Directors approved the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan, which supersedes the current Contingent Stock Plan, subject to approval of the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan by the Corporation's stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting.  Subject to such stockholder approval, the Committee established performance goals under the amended Performance-Based Compensation Program for cash bonuses for 2005 payable in 2006 and for awards to be made in 2006 under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan for the officers listed above and for certain other key employees.  The 2005 performance goals were based upon diluted earnings per share, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, net operating profit after tax, and net income.  Achievement of all goals during 2005 would permit cash bonuses to be paid to each of such executive officers up to the maximum cash bonus specified in the amended Performance-Based Compensation Program, which is the greater of one percent (1%) of the Corporation's net earnings for 2005 or $1 million, and stock awards to be made in 2006 under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan in the amount of up to two-tenths of 1% (0.2%) of the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation's common stock as of January 1, 2006.  The Committee has the discretion to approve lower cash bonuses and stock awards to the executive officers.  The Committee also established individual cash bonus goals for each executive officer based upon financial goals, including corporate operating profit and, where applicable, divisional and regional operating profit, as well as non-financial goals designed to align performance with the Corporation's business goals and strategies.
               
.
2005 Performance Goals
 
  The Corporation will provide additional information regarding the compensation paid to the executive officers for 2004 in its 2005 Proxy Statement, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2005.
               
Other Compensation Information.
 
Item 9.01                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits.
(c)
           
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
In order to entitle Sealed Air Corporation (the "Corporation") to deduct for U.S. income tax purposes the compensation expense resulting from certain performance-based compensation provided to certain officers and other eligible employees (as defined below) pursuant to awards under the Corporation's 2005 Contingent Stock Plan or under annual cash bonus arrangements, the following are the terms under which such awards may be granted to such eligible employees as provided in Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) and the regulations thereunder, as the same may be amended from time to time ("Section 162(m)"):
 
I.   Eligible Employees:
 
The class of employees eligible for awards under this program ("eligible employees") consists of the chief executive officer of the Corporation, the other four most highly compensated executive officers of the Corporation, and other officers and key employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries selected by the committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") that is authorized by the Board of Directors to establish and administer performance goals under this program.  The Committee will be comprised of "outside directors" as that term is defined in Section 162(m).
 
II.  Performance-based Awards of Common Stock:
 
Performance-based awards payable in shares of the Corporation's Common Stock under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan of Sealed Air Corporation or a successor plan can be made based upon achievement of pre-established objective goals during a performance period (which may be the calendar year) established by the Committee, consistent with the requirements of Section 162(m).  If such goals are achieved, then an eligible employee may be granted one or more awards payable in shares of Common Stock under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan during the 12-month period following the performance period in an aggregate amount up to the pre-established award level.
 
The maximum amount of performance-based awards payable in shares of the Corporation's Common Stock under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan to any eligible employee under this program during any 12-month period may not exceed two-tenths of 1%(0.2%) of the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock at the beginning of such period.  The Committee retains the sole and exclusive discretion to set pre-established award levels for awards under the Corporation's 2005 Contingent Stock Plan at an amount less than the maximum level specified in the prior sentence and to reduce (including a reduction to zero) any award payable in shares of Common Stock under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan that is otherwise payable under the program.
 
III.  Performance-based Awards of Cash:
 
Performance-based awards of cash under the Corporation's annual cash bonus arrangements can be made to eligible employees based upon achievement of pre-established objective goals during a calendar year performance period.  If such goals are achieved, the eligible employee may be granted an annual cash bonus for such year in an amount of up tothe greater of one percent (1%) of the Corporation's net earnings for that fiscal year or $1 million, provided, however, that the Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion may reduce (including a reduction to zero) any award to be made in cash to any eligible employee that is otherwise payable under the program for such year.  At the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee, an annual cash bonus may be paid although such goals have not been achieved if the eligible employee dies or becomes disabled during the performance period or a "change in control" (as defined in the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan) occurs during the performance period.
 
IV.   Pre-established Objective Goals:
 
A.  Performance-based awards under this program will require attainment of objective, pre-established goals based on one or more of the following criteria: growth in net sales; operating profit; net earnings; measures of cash flow; measures of expense control; earnings before interest and taxes (commonly called EBIT); earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (commonly called EBITDA); earnings per share; successful completion of strategic acquisitions, joint ventures or other transactions; measures of return on assets, return on invested capital or return on equity; shareholder value added (net operating profit after tax (NOPAT), excluding non-recurring items, less the Corporation's cost of capital); and the ratio of net sales to net working capital, or any combination of the foregoing goals.  Goals may be established on a corporate-wide basis or with respect to one or more business units, divisions or subsidiaries, and may be either in absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index covering multiple companies.  For the purpose of determining whether a goal has been attained, the Committee may exclude the impact of charges, credits and related costs for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, debt redemption or retirement, and the cumulative effects of accounting changes, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles, and other unusual or non-recurring items as defined by the Committee when the goals are established.
 
B.  Pre-established goals and award levels will be established by the Committee in writing during the first 90 days of the performance period (or during the first 25% of the performance period if the performance period is less than a year), provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at the time the Committee establishes the goal. Except as specified in this program, performance goals may not be changed once set.  No awards under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan or cash payments will be made until the Committee has certified that the performance goals have been met.
 
 
V.  Additional Provisions:
 
A.  The limits on awards made under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan and in cash are cumulative, that is, the Corporation may grant to any eligible employee in any year awards up to the specified limits both for Common Stock and for cash.  While the limits are annual, performance-based awards need not be made every year, and the Committee shall have the discretion to determine the intervals between successive performance-based awards.
 
B.  In the event of any change in the Corporation's capitalization, such as through a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, merger or consolidation, appropriate adjustments will be made by the Board of Directors to the maximum amount of performance-based awards payable in shares of the Corporation's Common Stock during any 12-month period to an eligible employee, to the pre-established award level for any award payable in shares of the Corporation's Common Stock, to the amount of any performance-based award payable in shares of the Corporation's Common Stock that has been approved by the Committee before such change occurred but not yet made as of such change, and to any pre-established goal that is based upon the Corporation's capitalization, such as earnings per share.
 
C.  The Committee shall be entitled at its discretion to approve awards under the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan, cash bonuses or compensation under any other compensation plan or arrangement that does not meet the requirements of Section 162(m) and thus may be partly or fully non-deductible by the Corporation for U.S. income tax purposes.
 
D.  Except as provided above and subject to the stockholder approval requirements of Section 162(m), the Committee shall have complete power and authority to amend, suspend or terminate any or all terms of the performance-based compensation program, except that it may not alter performance goals or increase pre-established award levels once they have been established for a performance period.  The Committee shall have full authority to administer the performance-based compensation program and to interpret the program's terms and establish rules for the administration of the program, although the Committee may consider recommendations from the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or from directors who are not members of the Committee.  The Committee's determinations under the program shall be final.
 
E.  An eligible employee's rights and interests under the program may not be assigned or transferred by the eligible employee.  To the extent an eligible employee acquires a right to receive an award under the program, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Corporation.  Nothing contained in the program shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or any fiduciary relationship between the Corporation and an eligible employee.  Designation as an eligible employee under the program shall
 
not entitle the employee to continued employment with or, if applicable, continuation as an officer of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
 
F.  The program shall be construed and governed in all respects under the laws of the United States to the extent applicable and, to the extent such laws are not applicable, under the laws of the State of New Jersey.
 
The foregoing terms of the amended performance-based compensation program shall become effective as of the Corporation's 2005 fiscal year, subject to the approval by the affirmative vote of a majority of votes cast by the stockholders of the Corporation at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders.

Exhibit 10.2
 
2005 CONTINGENT STOCK PLAN
 
OF
 
 
 
Section 1.  .  The purpose of the 2005 Contingent Stock Plan of Sealed Air Corporation is to assist the Corporation and its Subsidiaries in attracting and retaining employees and U.S.-based consultants of outstanding competence by providing an incentive that permits those employees and consultants responsible for the Corporation's growth to share directly in that growth, to motivate those employees and consultants by means of appropriate incentives to achieve the Corporation's long-range goals, and to further the identity of their interests with those of the stockholders of the Corporation.
Purpose
 
Section 2.  .  Capitalized terms used in this Plan have the meanings specified in this Section 2:
Definitions
 
"Award" means a grant to a Participant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Share Units or a Cash Award, or any combination thereof.
 
"Award Grant" means the written agreement confirming an Award and setting forth the terms and conditions thereof.  Award Grants need not be identical and shall not contain provisions inconsistent with provisions of the Plan.
 
"Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
"Cash Award" means an Award, subject to a Period of Restriction, that is granted to a participant under the Plan and provides for the right to receive cash as provided in the Award Grant, where the amount of such cash is measured by the Fair Market Value on the date that the Period of Restriction ends times the number of shares of Common Stock covered by the Cash Award.
 
"Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
(1)    any "person" (as the term "person" is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
(2)    as a result of any solicitation subject to Rule 14a-11 under the Securities Exchange Act (or any successor rule thereto) one or more
 
 
persons not recommended by or opposed for election to the Board of Directors by one-third or more of the Continuing Directors of the Corporation then in office is or are elected a director of the Corporation; or
(3)    there is consummated a Corporate Transaction and the stockholders of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction do not, immediately after the Corporate Transaction, beneficially own, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, at least 70% of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the successor or resulting corporation, ultimate parent corporation or other entity resulting from such Corporate Transaction, where the term "beneficially own" shall be used as in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act; or
(4)    the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets to an entity, at least 70% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which (or the ultimate parent corporation of which) is owned by stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Corporation immediately prior to such sale.
 
The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Committee, may terminate, amend, or modify this definition or determine that it does not apply to a specific transaction that would otherwise be a Change in Control at any time prior to the date of a Change in Control.  The provisions and application of this definition may not be terminated, amended or modified and the Committee may not waive its application to a specific transaction, however, on or after the date of a Change in Control to affect adversely any Award theretofore granted under the Plan without the written consent of each Participant with respect to such Awards made to such Participant.
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
"Committee" means the Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors described in Section 4 or any committee or other person or persons designated by the Board of Directors to administer the Plan.
 
"Common Stock" means the Corporation's authorized Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, except as this definition may be modified as provided in Section 13.
 
"Consultant" means an individual who is a consultant to the Corporation or a Subsidiary and who resides in the United States of America.
 
"Continuing Director" means a director of the Corporation who is serving as such on the Effective Date and any person who is approved as a nominee or elected to the Board of Directors by a majority of the Continuing Directors who are then members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
"Corporate Transaction" means a reorganization, merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all the Corporation's assets, or other corporate transaction involving the Corporation.
 
"Corporation" means Sealed Air Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
 
"Date of Termination" means the first day occurring on or after the date of grant of an Award on which the Participant is not performing services as an Employee or Consultant, regardless of the reason for the cessation of services; provided that a cessation of services shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer of a Participant between the Corporation and a Subsidiary or between two Subsidiaries; and further provided that a Participant's services shall not be considered terminated while the Participant is on an approved leave of absence from the Corporation or a Subsidiary.
 
"Director" means any member of the Board of Directors who is not an Employee.
 
"Disability" shall mean permanent and total disability as determined in each case by the Committee in its discretion, which determination shall be final.
 
"Effective Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 23.
 
"Employee" means any employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary who is receiving remuneration for personal services rendered to the Corporation or Subsidiary, including any such person who is an officer of the Corporation or Subsidiary, other than (1) solely as a director of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, (2) as a consultant, (3) as an independent contractor, (4) as an individual who is a "leased employee" within the meaning of Code section 414(n), or (5) any other individual engaged by the Corporation or Subsidiary in a relationship that the Corporation in its sole discretion characterizes as other than an employment relationship or who has waived his rights to coverage as an employee.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
"Fair Market Value" as of any specified date means the closing sale price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange  Composite Tape on such date or, if there are no sales on such date, on the next preceding day on which there are sales.  If the Common Stock ceases to be listed on the NYSE, Fair Market Value shall be determined in such manner as shall be selected by the Committee.
"NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
 
 "Participant" means an Employee or Consultant selected by the Committee to receive an Award.
 
"Performance-Based Exception" means the performance-based exception set forth in Code section 162(m)(4)(C) from the deductibility limitations of Code section 162(m).
 
"Performance Goal" means a target based on Performance Measures that is established by the Committee in connection with a Performance Award; Performance Goals may be established on a corporate-wide basis or with respect to one or more business units, divisions, or Subsidiaries, and may be in either absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index covering multiple companies.
 
"Performance Measures" means criteria established by the Committee relating to any of the following:  growth in net sales; operating profit; net earnings; measures of cash flow; measures of expense control; earnings before interest and taxes (commonly called EBIT); earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (commonly called EBITDA); earnings per share; successful completion of strategic acquisitions, joint ventures or other transactions; measures of return on assets, return on invested capital or return on equity; shareholder value added (net operating profit after tax (NOPAT), excluding non-recurring items, less the Corporation's cost of capital); and the ratio of net sales to net working capital, or any combination of the foregoing goals.  Performance Measures may be applied by excluding the impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, debt redemption or retirement, and the cumulative effects of accounting changes, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles, and other unusual or non-recurring items as defined by the Committee when the goals are established.
 
"Performance Share Units" means an Award, subject to a Period of Restriction and achievement of Performance Goals, that is granted to a Participant under the Plan and provides for the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock for each Performance Share Unit as specified in the Award Grant.  Performance Share Units may be granted to Employees who are executive officers or key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
 
"Period of Restriction" means the period during which the transfer of shares of Restricted Stock or any other Award made under the Plan is limited based on the passage of time and the Restricted Stock or any other Award made under the Plan remains subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Section 7.  Performance Share Units also remain subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture
 
 
until the performance period has ended and the Committee has certified that the applicable Performance Goals have been achieved.
 
"Plan" means this 2005 Contingent Stock Plan of Sealed Air Corporation.
 
"Restricted Stock" means an Award of shares of Common Stock, subject to a Period of Restriction, that is granted to a Participant under the Plan.  Unless and until any forfeiture of Restricted Stock, the Participant shall be entitled to receive cash dividends on such shares and shall be entitled to vote such shares.
 
"Restricted Stock Unit" means an Award, subject to a Period of Restriction, that is granted to a Participant under the Plan and provides for the right to receive one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit, as specified in the Award Grant.  The Committee may provide that Restricted Stock Units receive dividend equivalents payable in cash in the event that a record date for payment of cash dividends payable on outstanding shares of Common Stock occurs between the Participant's execution of an Award Grant for Restricted Stock Units and the issuance of shares on account of such Restricted Stock Units following the end of the Period of Restriction.
 
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
"Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which at least a 50% voting or profits interest is owned, directly by the Corporation, and any other business venture designated by the Committee in which the Corporation has a significant interest, as determined in the discretion of the Committee.
 
Section 3.  .  The aggregate number of Shares that may be issued to Participants pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan is 2,500,000 shares, subject, however, to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.  If any Common Stock issued under the Plan is reacquired by the Corporation due to a forfeiture described in Section 7 or in satisfaction of tax withholding with respect to an Award, the shares of Common Stock so acquired will again become available for Awards under the Plan.  Any shares of Common Stock related to Awards that terminate by forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such shares shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.  Cash Awards, which are paid in cash, do not count against the total amount of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan, provided that Cash Awards may not be made during any calendar year measured in the aggregate by more than 50,000 shares of Common Stock.  The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted as Performance Share Units to an Employee during any calendar year, aggregated with all other Awards made to such Employee during the same calendar year, is two-tenths of 1% (0.2%) of the issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock on January 1 of such calendar year.Shares issued under the Plan may be original issue shares, shares held in treasury, or shares reacquired by the Corporation under corporate repurchase programs, as determined by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation (or the Chief Executive Officer's designee) from time to time, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
Stock Available
 
 
The Committee may delegate any of its duties and powers hereunder to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Section 4.  .  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall be composed of not less than three Directors chosen from time to time by the Board of Directors.  No Director shall be eligible or continue to serve as a member of the Committee unless such person has been determined to be an "independent director" under applicable stock exchange standards and is an "outside director" within the meaning of regulations under Code section 162(m) and a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 16b-3.  In addition to the powers granted to the Committee as elsewhere set forth in the Plan and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to adopt and revise rules and regulations relating to the Plan and the conduct of the business of the Committee, and to take all actions and make all determinations that it believes necessary or advisable for the operation and administration of the Plan.  All decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all parties, including the Corporation, its stockholders, Employees, Consultants, Participants and their estates and beneficiaries.  No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award made under the Plan.
Administration
 
Section 5.  .  The Committee shall have exclusive authority, except as otherwise limited by the Plan, to select the Employees and Consultants to be granted Awards, to grant all Awards, to determine the time or times at which Awards will be granted and the type of Awards to be granted, to condition the grant of Awards to specific Participants upon achievement of performance measures under any other plan or program adopted by the Corporation, to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by an Award, to determine the time or times for the grant of Awards, to determine the limitations, restrictions and conditions applicable to each Award, to prescribe the form or forms of Award Grants (which need not be identical), and to have full authority with respect to all other matters relating to the Plan except those matters as are expressly reserved herein to the stockholders of the Corporation.  In making determinations relating to Awards, the Committee may consult with and take into account the recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation with respect to Awards made to other Employees and Consultants.  The Committee may also take into account the nature of the services rendered by such Employees and Consultants, their present and potential contributions to the Corporation's success and such other factors as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem relevant.  Awards need not be uniform among Participants.  The receipt of an Award by a Participant shall not entitle that Participant to receive an Award in the future.  The Committee shall inform the appropriate officers of the Corporation of its determinations, and such officers shall inform the Participant to whom an Award has been made of the grant of such Award.  The Committee may authorize any officer of the Corporation to provide or enter into Award Grants or other agreements on behalf of the Corporation and to take all other action necessary or desirable to effectuate the determinations of the Committee.
Terms, Conditions and Form of Award Grants
 
Section 6.    A Participant who has been granted an Award may accept the Award during the 60 day period beginning when written notice of the Award has been sent to the Participant, provided that the Participant is still an Employee or Consultant on the date of such acceptance.  In order to accept any such Award, the Participant shall give written
Acceptance of Award.
notice to the Corporation of such acceptance. The Participant also must execute and deliver to the Corporation an Award Grant and any additional documentation requested by the Corporation within the period specified by the Corporation. No Award shall be transferable by a Participant.
 
Section 7.  .  Neither shares of Restricted Stock, nor any other Award made under the Plan, nor any interest therein shall be sold, transferred, pledged, or encumbered until the end of the Period of Restriction specified in the Award Grant.  Except as provided below, the Period of Restriction shall begin on the date of the grant of an Award and end on the earlier of (i) the third anniversary of such date or such later date as the Committee shall determine or (ii) the date of a Change in Control.  Any Award made under the Plan shall be forfeited on the Date of Termination of a Participant during the applicable Period of Restriction other than as a result of the Participant's death or Disability, unless the Committee shall affirmatively determine not to seek forfeiture of an Award as to all or part of the shares subject thereto and to permit such Award either to be paid immediately (in whole or in part) or to continue to vest during the remainder of the original Period of Restriction subject to satisfaction of conditions specified by the Committee, which determination must be made no later than 90 days following the Participant's Date of Termination.  Any such determination shall be communicated to the Chief Executive Officer or other appropriate officer of the Corporation, who shall be authorized to take any and all action necessary to effectuate such decision.
Period of Restriction and Forfeiture of Awards
 
                                Section 8.  .  The Committee may make Awards consisting of Performance Share Units containing such terms and conditions and subject to such restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine, subject to the terms of the Plan. Performance Share Units shall be conditioned on the achievement of Performance Goals, based on or more Performance Measures, as determined by the Committee, over a performance period not less than one year prescribed by the Committee.  For Performance Share Units made to Employees that are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the grant of the Performance Share Units and the determination of Performance Goals shall be made by the Committee during the applicable periods required under Code section 162(m) and the Committee shall certify achievement of the applicable Performance Goals prior to issuance of shares under each Award of Performance Share Units as required under Code section 162(m).  With respect to Awards of Performance Share Units that are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee shall have the discretion to adjust the Awards downward but not upward.  If a Change in Control occurs after a Performance Share Unit has been granted but before completion of the performance period, a pro rata portion of such Award may be paid as of the date of the Change in Control to the extent the Committee deems in its sole discretion that a pro rata portion of the Performance Goals have been achieved during the portion of the performance period completed as of the date of the Change in Control.
Performance Share Units
 
                                Section 9.  .  All shares of Common Stock issued as Restricted Stock under the Plan shall, so long as the risk of forfeiture imposed by the Plan remains in effect, be represented by certificates with restrictive legends and shall be subject to stop-transfer orders.  Any certificate representing shares of Restricted Stock that remain subject to forfeiture shall be held in custody by the Corporation.  Participants may be required to execute stock powers or other similar instruments in order to facilitate the return to the Corporation of Restricted Stock upon forfeiture.  Upon the forfeiture of any Restricted Stock,
Issuance of Shares of Common Stock to Participants
 
such shares of Common Stock represented by the Restricted Stock shall be transferred to the Corporation without further action by the Participant, unless the Committee in its sole discretion determines not to seek forfeiture of the Award in whole or in part.  When (i) the Period of Restriction has ended (or the Committee has determined not to seek forfeiture following the Date of Termination of the Participant) with respect to an Award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares Units, (ii) all other conditions and contingencies have been satisfied with respect to an Award of Performance Share Units and (iii) the Participant has complied with any tax withholding requirement described in Section 18, then the Participant may obtain from the Corporation a certificate or certificates or a statement from the Corporation representing such shares in book entry form, free of all restrictions except those that may be imposed by law.
 
Section 10.  .  The obligation of the Corporation to issue Common Stock under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by governmental agencies as may be required.
Government and Other Regulations and Restrictions
 
Section 11.  .  The Corporation shall be under no obligation to register any shares of Common Stock under the Securities Act.  However, an Award Grant may make appropriate and reasonable provision for the registration of Common Stock acquired thereunder.  The Corporation, at its election, may undertake to pay all fees and expenses of each such registration, other than an underwriter's commission, if any.
Registration of Shares
 
Section 12.  .  No Participant shall have any interest in or be entitled to any voting rights or dividends or other rights or privileges of stockholders of the Corporation with respect to any shares of Common Stock unless, and until, shares of Common Stock are actually issued to such Participant following execution of an Award Grant and, for an Award of Restricted Stock Units or Performance Share Units, after the end of the Period of Restriction and, if applicable, upon the Committee's certification of achievement of any Performance Goals and other conditions established by the Committee, and then only from the date the Participant becomes the record owner thereof.
No Rights in Common Stock
 
Section 13.  .  In the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock dividend, split-up, combination of shares, or reclassification, or a corporate transaction, such as a merger, consolidation, separation, including a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Corporation, any reorganization, or any partial or complete liquidation of the Corporation, such adjustment shall be made in the number and class of shares that may be issued under the Plan and in the number and class of and/or price of shares subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.
Adjustments
 
Section 14.  .  The provisions of the Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of all successors of any person receiving Common Stock of the Corporation under the Plan, including, without limitation, the estate of such person and the executors, administrators or trustees thereof, the heirs and legatees of such person, and any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or representative of creditors of such person.
Successors
 
Section 15.  .  Nothing contained in the Plan or in any Award Grant shall confer upon any Participant a right to continue in the employ of or as a consultant to the Corporation or a Subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of any Employee or the consulting relationship of any Consultant at any time, whether with or without cause.
Corporation's Right to Terminate Employment
 
                                Section 16.  .  Awards received by Participants shall not be deemed a part of any Participant's compensation for purposes of determining such Participant's payments or benefits under any benefit plan, severance program, or severance pay law of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any country.
Effect on Compensation
 
                                Section 17.  .  The Plan shall be unfunded.  The Corporation will not create any trust or separate fund in connection with the Plan.  Neither the Corporation nor any of its Subsidiaries shall have any obligation to set aside funds or segregate assets to ensure the payment of any Award.  The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Corporation, any of its Subsidiaries and any Participant or other person.  To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of an Award under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Plan Unfunded
 
Section 18.  .  Each Award Grant incident to the Plan shall make appropriate provisions for the withholding of any federal, state or local taxes and any other charges that may be required by law to be withheld by reason of an Award, the issuance of Common Stock under the Plan or the reacquisition of such Common Stock by the Corporation.  The Corporation may cause all or any portion of any tax withholding obligation or other charges described in the preceding sentence to be satisfied by the Corporation withholding from the shares of Common Stock covered by an Award a number of shares (rounded down to the nearest whole share) with an aggregate Fair Market Value on the date that such withholding obligation arises equal to the aggregate amount of such taxes and other charges.  Regardless of any other provision of the Plan, the Corporation may refuse to issue or to deliver to the Participant certificates or a book entry statement representing shares covered by an Award until the Participant to whom the Award was made complies with any withholding obligation.
Tax Withholding
 
Section 19.  .  Neither the existence of the Plan nor the issuance of Common Stock pursuant thereto shall impair the right of the Corporation or its stockholders to make or effect any adjustments, recapitalizations or other change in the Common Stock referred to in Section 13, any change in the Corporation's business, any issuance of debt obligations or stock by the Corporation or any grant of options on stock of the Corporation.
Action by Corporation
 
Section 20.  .  The Committee shall have complete power and authority to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan and, if suspended, reinstate any and all provisions of the Plan except that without further approval of the stockholders of the Corporation and except as otherwise provided in Section 13, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan and the class of individuals eligible for Awards shall not be expanded.  In addition, the Corporation will obtain approval of the stockholders of the Corporation of any amendment to the Plan for which the Exchange Act or the rules of the NYSE requires approval by the stockholders of the Corporation or to the extent the Committee
Termination and Amendment of the Plan
otherwise determines that stockholder approval is required under applicable law. The Plan shall have a term of ten years from its Effective Date, provided, that the Plan shall terminate earlier if no additional shares of Common Stock remain available for Awards under the Plan. In the event of Plan termination or expiration, any then-outstanding Award shall remain in effect under the terms of its Award Grant.
 
Section 21.  .  The Committee may, from time to time, adopt, amend and terminate under the Plan such arrangements, not inconsistent with the intent of the Plan, as it may deem necessary or desirable to make available tax or other benefits of laws of any foreign jurisdiction to Participants who are subject to such laws and who receive Awards under the Plan.
Foreign Jurisdictions
 
Section 22.  .  The Plan shall be construed, administered, regulated and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the United States to the extent applicable, and to the extent such laws are not applicable, by the laws of the state of Delaware.
Applicable Law
 
Section 23.  .  The Plan shall become effective as of May 20, 2005, (the "Effective Date") if it is approved by vote of the stockholders of the Corporation at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  On and after the Effective Date, no Awards shall be granted under the Contingent Stock Plan of Sealed Air Corporation.
Effective Date
 
Section 24.  .  It is not intended that Awards under the Plan shall be subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A because Awards generally will be payable as soon as administratively practicable after the Award becomes vested.  However, to the extent that Code Section 409A does apply to an Award, the Plan is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, and official guidance issued thereunder.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent.
Compliance With Code Section 409A


