FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20090212153615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 1.01
       
 
                On February 6, 2009, Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") completed the private offering of $300 million of senior unsecured notes due 2014 (the "Notes").  The Notes were sold pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated February 6, 2009, by and among the Company, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P., Geico Indemnity Company and General Re Life Corporation (the "Note Purchase Agreement").
 
                In connection with the closing, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with U.S. Bank, National Association ("U.S. Bank") pursuant to which the Company issued the Notes.  The Notes, with a coupon of 12% per annum, were sold to the purchasers at a price of 100% of the principal amount.  Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2009.  The Notes are non-callable by the Company.  The Notes may be accelerated upon an event of default as described in the Indenture.  The Indenture imposes limitations on the Company's operations and those of specified subsidiaries, including limitations on liens, sale and leaseback transactions and mergers, acquisitions and dispositions.  These limitations are substantially equivalent to those contained in the indentures relating to the Company's other outstanding senior notes.
 
On February 6, 2009 the Company, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P., Geico Indemnity Company and General Re Life Corporation entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") pursuant to which the Company agreed to provide resale registration rights with respect to the Notes.
 
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities law and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities law.
 
As indicated in the Company's proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, in a Schedule 13G/A dated February 12, 2008 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P. indicated that it had sole voting power with respect to 54,425,157 shares and sole dispositive power with respect to 58,280,212 shares of the Company's common stock, which then represented beneficial ownership of approximately 36% of the outstanding shares of that class of stock.
 
U.S. Bank also serves as trustee under indentures regarding other outstanding senior notes of the Company.
 
Copies of the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreement are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 10.1, respectively.
 
The description of the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 10.1.
 
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Item 2.03
       
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
       
 
Exhibits.
(d)
  
 
In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements.  The agreements contain representations and warranties by parties to the applicable agreement.  These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and:
 
should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;
     
 
have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement;
     
 
may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and
     
 
were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments.
     
 
Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.  Additional information about the Company may be found in the Company's other public filings, which are available without charge through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov.
 
Some of the statements made by the Company in, or incorporated by reference in, this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking.  These statements include comments as to future events and trends affecting the Company's business, which are based upon management's current expectations and are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "should," "will" and similar expressions.  The following are important factors that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the Company's forward-looking statements:  general economic conditions; credit availability and pricing; changes in raw material and energy costs; conditions in the markets that the Company serves; the success of the Company's growth, profitability and global manufacturing strategies and its cost reduction and productivity program; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; tax, interest and foreign exchange rates; and legal proceedings.  A more extensive list and description of these and other such factors can be found under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated:  February 12, 2009
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
As Issuer
 
As Trustee
 
 
 
 
NOTE:  This table of contents shall not, for any reason, be deemed to be a part of this Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of February 6, 2009, among SEALED AIR CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 200 Riverfront Boulevard, Elmwood Park, New Jersey 07407-1033 and US Bank, National Association, a national banking association duly organized under the laws of the United States, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
RECITALS
 
The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of its 12% Senior Notes due 2014 (herein called the "Securities") of substantially the tenor hereinafter set forth, and to provide therefor the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture.
 
All things necessary (i) to make the Securities, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and (ii) to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, all in accordance with their respective terms, have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
 
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
 
ARTICLE ONE
 
Definitions and Other Provisions
of General Application
 
.
SECTION 101.
                                           
Definitions
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(1)
         
 
all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(2)
         
 
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "GAAP" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean GAAP as are generally accepted at the date of such computation;
(3)
         
 
unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to "Article", "Section" or "Annex" refers to an Article or Section of or Annex to this Indenture; and
(4)
         
the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
(5)
         
 
"Accounts Receivable" shall mean, with respect to any Person, all rights of such Person to the payment of money arising out of any sale, lease or other disposition of goods or provision of services by such Person.
 
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
 
"Additional Securities" has the meaning specified in Section 301.
 
"Affiliate" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person.  For the purposes of this definition, "control", when used with respect to any Person, means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"Agent Member" means any member of, or participant in, the Depositary.
 
"Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, Euroclear and Clearstream, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
 
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities.
 
"Board of Directors" means, with respect to the Company, the board of directors of the Company, or any duly authorized committee of that board.
 
"Board Resolution" of the Company means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, to have been duly adopted by its Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
"Capital Lease" shall mean at any date any lease of property which, in accordance with GAAP, would be required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee.
 
"Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg (or any successor securities clearing agency).
 
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
"Company Order" or "Company Request" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Consolidated Assets" shall mean, at any date, the total consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, all as set forth on the most recent publicly issued balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" shall mean, at any date, Consolidated Assets after deducting therefrom, without duplication, (i) applicable reserves and other properly deductible items, (ii) all current liabilities and (iii) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, all as set forth on the most recent publicly issued balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries and computed in accordance with GAAP.
 
 Floor, New York, NY 10005, Attention: US Bank Corporate Trust Services.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee in Atlanta, Georgia, at which its corporate trust business shall be administered at all times, which at the date hereof is US Bank Corporate Trust Services, Two Midtown Plaza, 1349 W. Peachtree St, Suite 1050, Atlanta, GA 30309 and for the purpose of maintaining a corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York pursuant to Sections 609 and 1002 hereunder, means the office of the Trustee located at 100 Wall Street, 16
th
 
"Corporation" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business trust.
 
"Credit Agreement" means the Revolving Credit Agreement (5-year), dated as of July 26, 2005, among the Company, certain of the Company's subsidiaries, banks and financial institutions party thereto, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as agent for the lenders, as amended, as such Credit Agreement may be amended, supplemented, extended, renewed, restated, replaced, refinanced or modified from time to time (whether or not there is ever a period when there is no Credit Agreement then in effect), including, without limitation, by adding additional parties to or increasing the commitments under such Credit Agreement.
 
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 308.
"Depositary" means, with respect to any Securities, a clearing agency that is registered as such under the Exchange Act and is designated by the Company to act as Depositary for such Securities (or any successor securities clearing agency so registered).
 
"Domestic Subsidiary" means each Subsidiary of the Company that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
 
"DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation.
 
"Euroclear" means the Euroclear Clearance System (or any successor securities clearing agency).
 
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or any successor statute), as it may be amended from time to time.
 
"Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
 
"Foreign Subsidiary" means (i) each Subsidiary of the Company not incorporated under the laws of the United States or of any State thereof and (ii) any other Subsidiary of the Company substantially all of the operations of which remain outside the United States.
 
"Funded Debt" means all Indebtedness having a maturity of more than 12 months from the date as of which the computation of Funded Debt is made or having a maturity of 12 months or less but by its terms being renewable or extendible beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower.
 
"GAAP" means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
"Global Security" means a Security that is registered in the Security Register in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof and bears the legend set forth in Section 202.
 
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
 
"Indebtedness" of any Person means, at any date, without duplication, (i) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (ii) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (except trade accounts payable and accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business) to the extent such amounts would be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as debt on a balance sheet of such Person, (iv) all obligations of such Person under Capital Leases, (v) all Indebtedness secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is otherwise an obligation of such Person, (vi) all non-contingent obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid under a letter of credit (other than letters of credit which secure obligations in respect of trade payables or other letters of credit not securing Indebtedness, unless such reimbursement obligation remains unsatisfied for more than three business days) and (vii) all
 
guarantees or endorsements (other than endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business) of such Person of Indebtedness of others.
 
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively.
 
"Initial Regulation S Securities" means the Securities sold to the Purchasers pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement in reliance on Regulation S, if any.
 
"Interest Payment Date" means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on the Securities.
 
"Issue Date" means the date on which the Securities are first authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
 
"Lien" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other) or other security agreement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement and any Capital Lease).
 
"Material Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary that, directly or indirectly through a Subsidiary, either (A) owns assets with a book value in excess of 5% of the book value of the Consolidated Assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, measured as of the last day of the most recently completed fiscal quarter for which the Company has publicly issued financial statements or (B) generated annual revenues in excess of 5% of the revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, for the most recently completed four fiscal quarter period for which the Company has publicly issued financial statements.
 
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration or otherwise.
 
"Note Purchase Agreement" means the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2009 between the Company and the Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
 
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
 
"Officers' Certificate" of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President or the Chief Financial Officer, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, and delivered to the Trustee.  One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 1004 shall be the principal executive,
 
financial or accounting officer of the Company or the chief operating officer of the Company.  Unless the context otherwise requires, each reference herein to an "Officers' Certificate" shall mean an Officers' Certificate of the Company.  References herein, or in any Security or Subsidiary Guarantee, to any officer of a Subsidiary Guarantor or other Person that is a partnership shall mean such officer of the partnership or, if none, of a general partner of the partnership authorized thereby to act on its behalf.
 
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"Original Securities" has the meaning specified in Section 301.
 
"Other Securities" means the Securities sold to the Purchasers pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A and Regulation S.
 
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, :
except
 
Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(i)
                                    
 
Securities for whose payment money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor (if the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, shall act as a Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities;
(ii)
                                 
 
Securities which have been defeased pursuant to Section 1102; and
(iii)
                              
 
Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 307 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a protected purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
(iv)
                             
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a responsible officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded.  Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
"Paying Agent" means the Trustee or any other Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
 
"Permitted Encumbrances" shall mean, as of any particular time and with respect to any real property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (i) such easements, leases, subleases, encroachments, rights of way, minor defects, irregularities or encumbrances on title which are not unusual with respect to property similar in character to any such real property and which do not secure Indebtedness and do not materially impair such real property for the purpose for which it is held or materially interfere with the conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and (ii) municipal and zoning ordinances which are not violated by the existing improvements and the present use made by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of such real property.
 
"Permitted Receivables Financing" means a sale, pledge or any other transfer of Accounts Receivable as a method of financing.
 
"Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise or any government or political subdivision or any agency, department or instrumentality thereof.
 
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every Security issued before, and evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by, such particular Security; for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 307 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
 
"Principal Property" means any manufacturing plant located in the United States currently owned or subsequently acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary which has a gross book value which (including related land, improvements, machinery and equipment without deduction of any depreciation reserves) on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeds 1% of Consolidated Assets, other than properties or any portion of a particular property which the Company's Board of Directors determines, in good faith, not to be of material importance to the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or, in the case of a portion of a particular property, to the use or operation of such property.
 
"Purchasers" means Davis Selected Advisers, L.P., Geico Indemnity Company and General Re Life Corporation.
 
"Registrable Securities" has the meaning specified in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
"Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2009 between the Company and the Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
 
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date means the February 1 or the August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
 
"Regulation S" means Regulation S under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
 
"Regulation S Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Annex A.
 
"Regulation S Global Security" means collectively the Regulation S Securities issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of DTC, as Depositary, or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for DTC, for credit by DTC to the respective accounts of beneficial owners of the Securities represented thereby (or such other accounts as the beneficial owners may direct); provided that upon such deposit, all such Securities shall be credited to or through accounts maintained at DTC by or on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream.
 
"Regulation S Legend" means a legend substantially in the form of the legend required in the form of Security set forth in Section 202 to be placed upon a Regulation S Security.
 
"Regulation S Securities" means all Securities required pursuant to Section 306(c) to bear a Regulation S Legend.  Such term includes the Regulation S Global Security.
 
"Restricted Global Security" has the meaning specified in Section 201.
 
"Restricted Period" means the period of 41 consecutive days beginning on and including the later of (i) the day on which Securities are first offered to persons other than distributors (as defined in Regulation S) in reliance on Regulation S and (ii) the day on which the Securities are purchased by the Purchasers pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement.
 
"Restricted Securities" means all Securities required pursuant to Section 306(c) to bear a Restricted Securities Legend.  Such term includes the Restricted Global Security.
 
"Restricted Securities Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Annex B.
 
"Restricted Securities Legend" means a legend substantially in the form of the legend required in the form of Security set forth in Section 202 to be placed upon a Restricted Security.
 
"Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company that is a Material Subsidiary and a Domestic Subsidiary.
 
"Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
 
"Rule 144A Securities" means the Securities purchased by the Purchasers from the Company pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, other than the Other Securities and the Initial Regulation S Securities, if any.
 
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement with any lender or investor, or to which any lender or investor is a party, providing for the leasing by a Person of any Principal Property of such Person which has been or is being sold or transferred by such Person to such lender or investor or to any person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such Principal Property, other than such arrangements involving any Principal Property within 180 days after the purchase or completion of construction of such Principal Property.  The stated maturity of such arrangement shall be the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such arrangement prior to the first date on which such arrangement may be terminated by the lessee without payment of a penalty.
 
"Securities" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of the recitals to this instrument, and includes both Original Securities and Additional Securities.
 
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 (or any successor statute), as it may be amended from time to time.
 
"Securities Act Legend" means a Restricted Securities Legend or a Regulation S Legend.
 
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 306.
 
"Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning specified in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 308.
 
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of interest, as the case may be, is due and payable.
 
"Subsidiary" of any Person means (i) any corporation more than 50% of whose stock of any class or classes having by the terms of such stock ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by such Person and/or by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person and (ii) any partnership, association, limited liability company, joint venture or other entity in which such Person and/or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person has more than a 50% equity interest at the time.
 
"Subsidiary Guarantee" means the unconditional guarantee by the Subsidiary Guarantor of the due and punctual payment of principal and interest on the Securities, executed in the form established pursuant to Annex D hereof.
 
"Subsidiary Guarantor" shall mean at any time each Subsidiary that has become a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to Section 1202 of this Indenture, in each case so long as it remains a Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor Trustee.
 
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided
however
 
"Unrestricted Securities Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Annex C.
 
"U.S. Government Obligations" means securities which are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America where the timely payment or payments thereunder are unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America and which, in the case of (i) or (ii), are not callable or redeemable except at the option of the holders thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or specific payment of interest on or principal of other amount with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of or other amount with respect to the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
provided
 
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president of such Person, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
 
SECTION 102.       .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
 
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied) or this Indenture.  Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel,
and shall comply with any requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and as set forth in this Indenture.
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include
 
(1)  a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
 
(2)  a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(3)  a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
(4)  a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
SECTION 103.       .
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
 
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous.  Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
SECTION 104.       .
Acts of Holders; Record Dates
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in
person or by an agent of such Holders duly appointed in writing and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where hereby expressly required, to the Company.  Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments.  Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
 
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof.  Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority.  The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities; that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph.  If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on such record date.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on the date such action is taken.  Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided
provided
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512.  If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on such record date.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on the date such action is taken.  Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided
 
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which sets such record date may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date.  If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.
provided
 
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
 
SECTION 105.       .
Notices, Etc., to Trustee, Company and Subsidiary Guarantors
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
(1)  the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention:  Corporate Trust Department, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Holders or the Company by the Trustee, or, with respect to notices by the Company or any Subsidiary
Guarantor, transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers: (404) 898-2467 or to any other facsimile number previously furnished in writing to the Company by the Trustee, or
 
(2)  the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to it addressed to it at the address of the Company's principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, Attention:  General Counsel and Secretary, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company or, with respect to notices by the Trustee, transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile number: (201) 703-4231 or to any other facsimile number previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
 
SECTION 106.       .
Notice to Holders; Waiver
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice.  In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders.  Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice.  Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
In case, by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
 
SECTION 107.       .
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
SECTION 108.       .
Successors and Assigns
 
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 109.       .
Separability Clause
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
SECTION 110.       .
Benefits of Indenture
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
SECTION 111.       .
Governing Law
 
THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
SECTION 112.       .
Legal Holidays
 
In any case where any Interest Payment Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee) payment of interest or principal need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or at the Stated Maturity, that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, to such Business Day if such payment is made or duly provided for on such Business Day.
provided
 
 
SECTION 201.       .
Forms Generally; Initial Forms of Rule 144A, Regulation S and Other Securities
 
The Securities and the Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the forms set forth in this Article, with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depository therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
 
Any Subsidiary Guarantees shall be in substantially the form set forth in Annex D.
 
The definitive Securities shall be typed, printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods or may be produced in any other manner
permitted by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed and (with respect to Global Securities) the rules of the Depositary, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities as evidenced by their execution thereof.
 
Upon their original issuance, Rule 144A Securities shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of DTC, as Depositary, or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for DTC, for credit by DTC to the respective accounts of beneficial owners of the Securities represented thereby (or such other accounts as they may direct).  Such Global Securities, together with their Successor Securities which are Global Securities other than the Regulation S Global Security, are collectively herein called the "Restricted Global Security".
 
SECTION 202.       .
Form of Face of Security
 
[If the Security is a Restricted Security or is an Other Security, then insert  This Security has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws and, accordingly, may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. Persons except as set forth in the following sentence.  By its acquisition of this Security, the holder (1) represents that (a) it is a "Qualified Institutional Buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act), (b) it is an institutional "Accredited Investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act) ("Institutional Accredited Investor"), or (c) it is not a U.S. Person and is acquiring this Security in an Offshore Transaction in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act; (2) agrees that it will not, prior to expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of this Security under Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), resell or otherwise transfer this Security except (a) to Sealed Air Corporation or any Subsidiary thereof, (b) to a Qualified Institutional Buyer in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, (c) to an Institutional Accredited Investor that, prior to such transfer, furnishes to US Bank, National Association, as trustee (or a successor trustee, if applicable), a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of this Security (the form of which letter can be obtained from such Trustee or a successor trustee, as applicable) and, if such transfer is in respect of an aggregate principal amount of Securities at the time of transfer of less than $100,000, an opinion of counsel acceptable to Sealed Air Corporation that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (d) pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144 under the Securities Act (if available), (e) pursuant to a registration statement which has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer), or (f) outside the United States in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act; and (3) agrees that it will deliver to each person to whom this Security is transferred a notice substantially to the effect of this legend.  If the proposed transferee is an Institutional Accredited Investor or is a purchaser who is not a Qualified Institutional Buyer or a U.S. Person, the holder must, prior to such transfer, furnish to US Bank, National Association, as trustee (or a successor trustee, as applicable), such certifications, legal opinions or other information as it may reasonably require to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  This legend will be removed upon the earlier of the transfer of this Security pursuant to Clause 2(e)
above or upon any transfer of this Security under Rule 144(b)(1) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision).  As used in this Security, the terms "Offshore Transaction," "United States" and "U.S. Person" have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act.]
 
 THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, OR DELIVERED IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, ANY U.S. PERSON, UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR AN EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS THEREOF IS AVAILABLE.]
[If the Security is a Regulation S Security, then insert
 
 THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF.  THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.]
[If the Security is a Global Security, then insert
 
 UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
[If the Security is a Global Security and The Depository Trust Company is to be the Depositary therefor, then insert
 
[If Restricted Global Security - CUSIP Number: 81211K AL4]
[If Regulation S Global Security - CUSIP Number: U81193 AE1]
[If Unrestricted Global Security  CUSIP Number: 81211K AM2]
 
 
SEALED AIR CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                                     , or registered assigns, the principal sum of                              Dollars  (which principal amount may from time to time be increased or decreased to such other principal amounts (which, when taken together with the principal amounts of all other Outstanding Securities, may be unlimited) by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee hereinafter referred to in accordance with the Indenture) on February 14, 2014 and to pay interest thereon from August 15, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on February 15 and August 15, in each year, commencing August 15, 2009, at the rate of 12% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, that any amount of interest on this Security which is overdue shall bear interest (to the extent that payment thereof shall be legally enforceable) at the rate per annum then borne by this Security from the date such amount is due to the day it is paid or made available for payment, and such overdue interest shall be payable on demand.
[if the Security is a Global Security, then insert
]
provided
 
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 1 or August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.  Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis set forth in the Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, New York, maintained for such purpose and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
SECTION 203.               .
Form of Reverse of Security
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 12% Senior Notes due 2014 (herein called the "Securities") issued under an Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and the Trustee, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture).  The aggregate principal amount of the Securities is unlimited.  Reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
 
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (i) the entire indebtedness of this Security or (ii) certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Original Securities (as defined in the Indenture) and the Additional Securities (as defined in the Indenture), if any, shall constitute one series for all purposes under the Indenture, including without limitation, amendments and waivers.
 
If this Security is a Registrable Security, then the Holder of this Security (including any Person that has a beneficial interest in this Security) is entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement dated as of February 6, 2009, executed by the Company and the Purchasers (as amended from time to time, the "Registration Rights Agreement").
 
If this Security is a Registrable Security and the Holder of this Security (including any Person that has a beneficial interest in this Security) elects to sell this Security pursuant to
the Shelf Registration Statement then, by its acceptance hereof, such Holder of this Security agrees to be bound by the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement relating to the Registrable Securities which are the subject of such election.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the obligations of the Company under the Indenture and this Security are, under certain circumstances provided in the Indenture, required to be guaranteed pursuant to Subsidiary Guarantees with respect to the payment of the principal and interest on the Securities.  Each Holder, by holding this Security, agrees to all of the terms and provisions of any such Subsidiary Guarantees.  Each Subsidiary Guarantee issued pursuant to the terms of the Indenture shall provide that the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto shall be released from its obligations under such Subsidiary Guarantee if it is no longer a subsidiary guarantor under, and as such term is defined in, the Credit Agreement and upon delivery to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate certifying to that effect.  On the date of original issuance of the Securities, no Subsidiaries of the Company shall be required to provide Subsidiary Guarantees.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity.  The foregoing shall not apply to certain suits described in the Indenture, including any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and
unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
 Floor, New York, New York 10005, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York (which initially shall be the office of the Trustee located at US Bank, National Association, 100 Wall Street, 16
th
 
The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 thereafter.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the Trustee, may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
SECTION 204.               .
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
 
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
 
Dated:
 
This is one of the Securities described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
ARTICLE THREE
 
The Securities
 
SECTION 301.               .
Title and Terms
 
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.  The Trustee shall authenticate Securities on the Issue Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $300,000,000 ("Original Securities").  In addition, subject to the provisions of Section 102, the Trustee shall authenticate additional Securities ("Additional Securities") upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of Securities to be authenticated and the date on which such Securities are to be authenticated and certifying that all conditions precedent to the issuance of the Additional Securities contained herein have been complied with and that no Default or Event of Default would occur as a result of the issuance of such Additional Securities.  The aggregate principal amount of the Additional Securities, if any, is unlimited.
 
The Securities shall be known and designated as the "12% Senior Notes Due 2014" of the Company.  Their Stated Maturity shall be February 14, 2014 and they shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, from August 15, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2009, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment.
 
 Floor, New York, New York 10005), maintained for such purpose and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
The principal of and interest on the Securities shall be payable at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, New York (which initially shall be the office of the Trustee located at US Bank, National Association, 100 Wall Street, 16
th
provided
however
 
The Registrable Securities are entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement and in the form of Security set forth in Section 202.
 
The Securities shall not have the benefit of any sinking fund obligations.
 
The Securities shall be subject to defeasance at the option of the Company as provided in Article Eleven.
 
The Original Securities and the Additional Securities, if any, shall constitute one series for all purposes under this Indenture, including, without limitation, amendments and waivers.
 
The Securities shall be guaranteed by any Subsidiary Guarantors as provided in Article Twelve and any Subsidiary Guarantees, the form of which is set forth in Annex D.
SECTION 302.               .
Denominations
 
The Securities shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and in minimum denominations of $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 thereafter.
 
SECTION 303.               .
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
 
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries.  The signature of any of these officers or the Company's seal on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
 
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities; and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as in this Indenture provided and not otherwise.
 
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein, executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
SECTION 304.               .
Temporary Securities
 
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities, which Securities are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities, in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
 
If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay.  After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities, upon surrender of the temporary Securities at any office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 1002, without charge to the Holder.  Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in
exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations.  Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
SECTION 305.               .
Global Securities
 
(a)           Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary designated by the Company for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or custodian therefor, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this Indenture.
 
(b)           Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (i) such Depositary (A) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered as such under the Exchange Act, (ii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Security, or (iii) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all Global Securities shall be exchanged in whole for Securities that are not Global Securities (in which case such exchange shall be effected by the Trustee).
 
(c)           If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or cancelled in whole, it shall be surrendered by or on behalf of the Depositary or its nominee to the Trustee, as Security Registrar, for exchange or cancellation as provided in this Article Three.  If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or cancelled in part, or if another Security is to be exchanged in whole or in part for a beneficial interest in any Global Security, then either (i) such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or cancellation as provided in this Article Three or (ii) the principal amount thereof shall be reduced or increased by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged or cancelled, or equal to the principal amount of such other Security to be so exchanged for a beneficial interest therein, as the case may be, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee, as Security Registrar, whereupon the Trustee, in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, shall instruct the Depositary or its authorized representative to make a corresponding adjustment to its records.  Upon any such surrender or adjustment of a Global Security, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 305(b) and as otherwise provided in this Article Three, authenticate and deliver any Securities issuable in exchange for such Global Security (or any portion thereof) to or upon the order of, and registered in such names as may be directed by, the Depositary or its authorized representative.  Upon the request of the Trustee in connection with the occurrence of any of the events specified in the preceding paragraph, the Company shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Securities that are not in the form of Global Securities.  The Trustee shall be entitled to rely upon any order, direction or request of the Depositary or its authorized representative which is given or made pursuant to this Article Three if such order, direction or request is given or made in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
 
(d)           Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this
Article Three, Section 905 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
 
(e)           The Depositary or its nominee, as registered owner of a Global Security, shall be the Holder of such Global Security for all purposes under this Indenture, the Securities and any Subsidiary Guarantees, and owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security shall hold such interests pursuant to the Applicable Procedures.  Accordingly, any such owner's beneficial interest in a Global Security will be shown only on, and the transfer of such interest shall be effected only through, records maintained by the Depositary or its nominee or its Agent Members.
 
 
(a)           .  The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the  register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency designated pursuant to Section 1002 being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers and exchanges of Securities.  The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers and exchanges of Securities as herein provided.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange Generally
 
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security at an office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 1002 for such purpose, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by this Indenture.
 
At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for new Securities of any authorized denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by this Indenture, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency.  Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company and any Subsidiary Guarantors, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities, surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306 or 905 not involving any transfer.
 
(b)
                                
Certain Transfers and Exchanges
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or the Securities, transfers and exchanges of Securities and beneficial interests in a Global Security of the kinds specified in this Section 306(b) shall be made only in accordance with this Section 306(b).
 
(i)
                                    
Restricted Global Security to Regulation S Global Security
.  If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with the provisions of this Clause (b)(i) and Clause (b)(vii) below and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (A) an order given by the Depositary or its authorized representative directing that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security in an equal principal amount be debited from another specified Agent Member's account and (B) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the owner of such beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or his attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar but subject to Clause (b)(vii) below, shall reduce the principal amount of the Restricted Global Security and increase the principal amount of the Regulation S Global Security by such specified principal amount as provided in Section 305(c).
 
(ii)
                                 
Regulation S Global Security to Restricted Global Security
.  If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with this Clause (b)(ii) and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (A) an order given by the Depositary or its authorized representative directing that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security in an equal principal amount be debited from another specified Agent Member's account and (B) if such transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, a Restricted Securities Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the owner of such beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or his attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar, shall reduce the principal amount of the Regulation S Global Security and increase the principal amount of the Restricted Global Security by such specified principal amount as provided in Section 305(c).
 
(iii)
                              
Restricted Non-Global Security to Restricted Global Security or Regulation S Global Security
.  If the Holder of a Restricted Security (other than a Global
Security) wishes at any time to transfer all or any portion of such Security to a Person who wishes to take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or the Regulation S Global Security, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with the provisions of this Clause (b)(iii) and Clause (b)(vii) below and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (A) such Security as provided in Section 306(a) and instructions satisfactory to the Trustee directing that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or Regulation S Global Security in a specified principal amount not greater than the principal amount of such Security be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and (B) a Restricted Securities Certificate, if the specified account is to be credited with a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security, or a Regulation S Certificate, if the specified account is to be credited with a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, in either case satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by such Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar but subject to Clause (b)(vii) below, shall cancel such Security (and issue a new Security in respect of any untransferred portion thereof) as provided in Section 306(a) and increase the principal amount of the Restricted Global Security or the Regulation S Global Security, as the case may be, by the specified principal amount as provided in Section 305(c).
 
(iv)
                             
Regulation S Non-Global Security to Restricted Global Security or Regulation S Global Security
.  If the Holder of a Regulation S Security (other than a Global Security) wishes at any time to transfer all or any portion of such Security to a Person who wishes to take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or the Regulation S Global Security, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with this Clause (b)(iv) and Clause (b)(vii) below and subject to the Applicable Procedures.  Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (A) such Security as provided in Section 306(a) and instructions satisfactory to the Trustee directing that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security or Regulation S Global Security in a specified principal amount not greater than the principal amount of such Security be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and (B) if the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period and the specified account is to be credited with a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security, a Restricted Securities Certificate satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by such Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar but subject to Clause (b)(vii) below, shall cancel such Security (and issue a new Security in respect of any untransferred portion thereof) as provided in Section 306(a) and increase the principal amount of the Restricted Global Security or the Regulation S Global Security, as the case may be, by the specified principal amount as provided in Section 305(c).
 
(v)
                                
Non-Global Security to Non-Global Security
.  A Security that is not a Global Security may be transferred, in whole or in part, to a Person who takes delivery in the form of another Security that is not a Global Security as provided in Section 306(a), that, if the Security to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Security, or is a Regulation S Security and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, then the Trustee shall have received (A) a Restricted Securities Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in
provided
writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Restricted Security, or (B) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Security (subject in each case to Section 306(c)).
 
(vi)
                             
Exchanges between Global Security and Non-Global Security
.  A beneficial interest in a Global Security may be exchanged for a Security that is not a Global Security as provided in Section 305, that, if such interest is a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security, or if such interest is a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security and such exchange is to occur during the Restricted Period, then such interest shall be exchanged for a Restricted Security (subject in each case to Section 306(c)).  A Security that is not a Global Security may be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Security only if (A) such exchange occurs in connection with a transfer effected in accordance with Clause (b)(iii) or (iv) above or (B) such Security is a Regulation S Security and such exchange occurs after the Restricted Period.
provided
 
(vii)
                          
Regulation S Global Security to be Held Through Euroclear or Clearstream during Restricted Period
.  The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Depositary to ensure that, until the expiration of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may be held only in or through accounts maintained at the Depositary by Euroclear or Clearstream (or by Agent Members acting for the account thereof), and no person shall be entitled to effect any transfer or exchange that would result in any such interest being held otherwise than in or through such an account; that this Clause (b)(vii) shall not prohibit any transfer or exchange of such an interest in accordance with Clause (b)(ii) or (vi) above.
provided
 
(viii)
                       
Miscellaneous
.  The Trustee shall have no obligations or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements thereof.
 
(c)
                                 
Securities Act Legends
.  Rule 144A Securities, Other Securities and their respective Successor Securities shall bear a Restricted Securities Legend, and Initial Regulation S Securities and their Successor Securities shall bear a Regulation S Legend, subject to the following:
 
(i)
                                    
subject to the following Clauses of this Section 306(c), a Security or any portion thereof which is exchanged, upon transfer or otherwise, for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall bear the Securities Act Legend borne by such Global Security while represented thereby;
(ii)
                                 
subject to the following Clauses of this Section 306(c), a new Security which is not a Global Security and is issued in exchange for another Security (including a Global Security) or any portion thereof, upon transfer or otherwise, shall bear the Securities Act Legend borne by such other Security, that, if such new Security is required pursuant to Section 306(b)(v) or (vi) to be issued in the form of a Restricted Security, it shall bear a Restricted Securities Legend and, if such new Security is so required to be issued in the form of a Regulation S Security, it shall bear a Regulation S Legend;
provided
 
(iii)
                              
any Securities that are sold or otherwise disposed of pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act (including the Shelf Registration Statement), together with their Successor Securities shall not bear the Securities Act Legend; the Company shall inform the Trustee in writing of the effective date of any such registration statement registering the Securities under the Securities Act;
 
(iv)
                             
at any time after the Securities may be freely transferred without registration under the Securities Act or without being subject to transfer restrictions pursuant to the Securities Act, a new Security which does not bear a Securities Act Legend may be issued in exchange for or in lieu of a Security (other than a Global Security) or any portion thereof which bears such a legend if the Trustee has received an Unrestricted Securities Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the Holder of such legended Security or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and after such date and receipt of such certificate, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such a new Security in exchange for or in lieu of such other Security as provided in this Article Three;
 
(v)
                                
a new Security which does not bear a Securities Act Legend may be issued in exchange for or in lieu of a Security (other than a Global Security) or any portion thereof which bears such a legend if, in the Company's judgment, placing such a legend upon such new Security is not necessary to ensure compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver such a new Security as provided in this Article Three; and
 
(vi)
                             
notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 306(c), a Successor Security of a Security that does not bear a particular form of Securities Act Legend shall not bear such form of legend unless the Company has reasonable cause to believe that such Successor Security is a "restricted security" within the meaning of Rule 144, in which case the Trustee, at the direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver a new Security bearing a Restricted Securities Legend in exchange for such Successor Security as provided in this Article Three.
 
SECTION 307.
                                           
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
.
 
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them, any Subsidiary Guarantor and any agent of any of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
 
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
SECTION 308.
                                           
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
.
 
Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
 
Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
 
(1)
         
The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner.  The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount
proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided.  Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder in the manner provided in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date.  Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
 
(2)
         
The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
SECTION 309.
                                           
Persons Deemed Owners
.
 
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and (subject to Section 308) interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
SECTION 310.
                                           
Cancellation
.
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it.  The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee.  No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities
cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture.  All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedures.
 
SECTION 311.
                                           
Computation of Interest
.
 
Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months , , that any overdue interest and interest on overdue interest on any Securities, shall be computed on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year, as the case may be, and the number of days actually elapsed during the relevant period.
provided
however
 
SECTION 312.
                                           
CUSIP Numbers
.
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use). The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
 
ARTICLE FOUR
 
Satisfaction and Discharge
 
SECTION 401.
                                           
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
.
 
This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
 
(1)
         
either
 
(a)
                                 
all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 307 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(b)
                                
all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
 
(i)
                                    
have become due and payable, or
 
(ii)
                                 
will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year,
 
and the Company, in the case of (i) or (ii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of discharging its
obligations under this Indenture an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity, as the case may be;
 
(2)
         
the Company has or any Subsidiary Guarantors have, jointly or severally, paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company and under any Subsidiary Guarantees by any Subsidiary Guarantors, as the case may be; and
 
(3)
         
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Company to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (b) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive.
 
SECTION 402.
                                           
Application of Trust Money
.
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
ARTICLE FIVE
 
Remedies
 
SECTION 501.
                                           
Events of Default
.
 
"Event of Default", wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
(1)
         
default in the payment of any interest upon any Security when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
 
(2)
         
default in the payment of the principal of any Security at its Maturity; or
 
(3)
         
default in the performance, or breach, of Section 801 hereof or Section 1202 hereof (relating to the obligation of the Company to cause Subsidiaries to become Subsidiary Guarantors); or
(4)
         
default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, in the manner provided in Section 106, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
 
(5)
         
a default or defaults under the terms of any bond(s), debenture(s), note(s) or other evidence(s) of, or under any mortgage(s), indenture(s), agreement(s) or instrument(s) under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary with a principal amount then outstanding, individually or in the aggregate, of at least $25,000,000, whether such Indebtedness now exists or is hereafter incurred, which default or defaults (i) shall have resulted in such Indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable or (ii) shall constitute the failure to pay all or any portion of such Indebtedness at the final stated maturity thereof (after expiration of any applicable grace period) and such default shall not have been rescinded or such Indebtedness shall not have been discharged within 10 days; or
 
(6)
         
the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
 
(7)
         
the commencement by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or the filing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to the
filing of such a petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or the making by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in furtherance of any such action.
 
SECTION 502.
                                           
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
.
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(6) or (7) that occurs with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the principal of all the Securities to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal and any accrued interest shall become immediately due and payable.  If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(6) or (7) involving the Company occurs, the principal of and any accrued interest on the Securities then Outstanding shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
 
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided in this Article, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
 
(1)
         
the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
 
(a)
                                 
all overdue interest on all Securities,
 
(b)
                                
the principal of any Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate provided therefor in the Securities,
 
(c)
                                 
to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate provided therefor in the Securities, and
 
(d)
                                
all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
 
and
 
(2)   all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 503.         .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
 
The Company covenants that if
 
(1)   default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
 
(2)
         
default is made in the payment of the principal of any Security at the Maturity thereof,
 
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest, and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and on any overdue interest, at the rate provided therefor in the Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
.
SECTION 504.
                         
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
 
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or its creditors or of any Subsidiary Guarantor or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions, including participation as a member, voting or otherwise, of any committee of creditors, which would be authorized under the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied) in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding.  In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
.
SECTION 505.
                         
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
 
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
.
SECTION 506.
                           
Application of Money Collected
 
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
 
FIRST:  To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
 
SECOND:  To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest, respectively; and
 
THIRD:  To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its successors or assigns, or to whoever may be lawfully entitled to receive the same, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
 
.
SECTION 507.
                           
Limitation on Suits
 
No Holder of any Security shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
 
(1)
         
such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default;
 
(2)
         
the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3)
         
such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
(4)
         
the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
 
(5)
         
no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities;
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders.
 
.
SECTION 508.
                           
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal and Interest
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and (subject to Section 308) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturity expressed in such Security and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the written consent of such Holder.
 
.
SECTION 509.
                           
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
 
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
.
SECTION 510.
                           
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
 
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 307, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise.  The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
.
SECTION 511.
                           
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
 
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein.  Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
.
SECTION 512.
                           
Control by Holders
 
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, that
provided
 
(1)
         
such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, and
 
(2)
         
the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
 
.
SECTION 513.
                           
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities waive any past default hereunder and its consequences, except a default
 
(1)
         
in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security, or
 
(2)
         
in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the written consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected.
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
.
SECTION 514.
                           
Undertaking for Costs
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs, including legal fees and expenses, against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied); that this Section shall not be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee or any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities or in any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of
provided
principal of or interest on any Security on or after the respective Stated Maturity expressed in such Security.
 
.
SECTION 515.
                           
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
ARTICLE SIX
 
The Trustee
 
.
SECTION 601.
                           
Certain Duties and Responsibilities
 
The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.  Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
.
SECTION 602.
                           
Notice of Defaults
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 603(i), the Trustee shall give the Holders notice of any default hereunder as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied); , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4), no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof.  For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default.
provided
however
 
.
SECTION 603.
                           
Certain Rights of Trustee
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
 
(a)
                                 
the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of
 
indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)
                                
any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
(c)
                                 
whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
 
(d)
                                
the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
(e)
                                 
the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses) and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
(f)
                                   
the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney upon reasonable notice during normal business hours;
 
(g)
                                
the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(h)
                                
the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
(i)
                                    
the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any default or Event of Default unless a responsible officer (with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture) of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture; and
 
(j)
                                    
the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
.
SECTION 604.
                           
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
 
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities and in any Subsidiary Guarantee, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor as the case may be, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture, the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantees.  The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
.
SECTION 605.
                           
May Hold Securities
 
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor and any other obligor upon the Securities and any Subsidiary Guarantees with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
 
.
SECTION 606.
                           
Money Held in Trust
 
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.  The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be.
 
.
SECTION 607.
                           
Compensation and Reimbursement
 
The Company agrees
 
(1)
         
to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(2)
         
except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its gross negligence or bad faith; and
(3)
         
to indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or expense, including taxes (other than taxes based on the income of the Trustee) incurred without gross negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, a Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
 
The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this Section 607, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(6) or Section 501(7), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the termination of this Indenture.
 
.
SECTION 608.
                           
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests
 
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, this Indenture.
 
.
SECTION 609.
                           
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such, has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and has its Corporate Trust Office located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.  If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
.
SECTION 610.
                           
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
 
(a)
                                 
No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 611.
 
(b)           The Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company.  If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(c)           The Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, delivered to the Trustee and the Company.  If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor.
 
(d)           If at any time:
 
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
 
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
 
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
 
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(e)           If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.  If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.  If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(f)            The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 106.  Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 611.               .
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
 
Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on written request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.  Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts.
 
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
 
SECTION 612.               .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
 
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.  In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
SECTION 613.               .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
 
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee, the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act (as if such Act applied) regarding the collection of claims against the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any such other obligor.
 
SECTION 614.               .
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
 
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or pursuant to Section 307, and Securities so authenticated, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if such Securities had been authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.  Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include
authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent.  Each Authenticating Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority.  If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.  If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
 
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and the Company.  The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and the Company.  Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and shall send written notice of such appointment, in the manner provided in Section 106, to all Holders.  Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent.  No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
 
If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
Dated:
 
This is one of the Securities described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
ARTICLE SEVEN
 
Holders' Lists and Reports by Trustee and Company
 
SECTION 701.               .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
 
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee
 
(a)           semi-annually, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of such Regular Record Date, and
 
(b)           at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
 
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
 
SECTION 702.               .
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
 
(a)           The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.  The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
(b)           The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act as if this Indenture were subject to such Act.
 
(c)           Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of any of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and
addresses of Holders made pursuant to applicable law or in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
 
SECTION 703.               .
[Reserved]
 
SECTION 704.               .
Reports by Company and Restricted  Subsidiaries
 
The Company shall file with the Trustee and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports as it is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 within 15 days after the same is filed with the Commission.  Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
ARTICLE EIGHT
 
Merger, Consolidation, Etc.
 
.
SECTION 801.
                                           
Mergers, Consolidations and Certain Transfers, Leases and Acquisitions of Assets
 
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
 
(1)           in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; and
 
(2)           immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing.
 
SECTION 802.               .
Successor Substituted
 
Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
 
ARTICLE NINE
 
Supplemental Indentures
 
SECTION 901.               .
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
 
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution of the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
 
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
(3) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1009 or otherwise; or
 
(4) to provide for the issuance of Additional Securities in accordance with the provisions of its Indenture; or
 
(5) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein or in any Subsidiary Guarantee which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or in any Subsidiary Guarantee, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture or any Subsidiary Guarantee which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, that such action pursuant to this Clause (5) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect; or
provided
 
(6) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture to permit or facilitate the issuance of Global Securities and matters related thereto, that such action pursuant to this Clause (6) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
provided
 
SECTION 902.               .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
 
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution of the Company, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or any Subsidiary Guarantee or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture or any Subsidiary Guarantee; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
 
(1)   change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon, or change the place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof, or
 
(2)   modify the provisions of any Subsidiary Guarantee or the provisions of this Indenture relating to any such Subsidiary Guarantee in any way that shall adversely affect the interests of each Holder, or
 
(3)   reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
 
(4)   modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1011 except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby.
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
 
SECTION 903.               .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
 
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.  The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
SECTION 904.               .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
SECTION 905.               .
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
 
Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture.  If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.
 
ARTICLE TEN
 
Covenants
 
SECTION 1001.             .
Payment of Principal and Interest
 
The Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of and interest on the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
 
SECTION 1002.             .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the Securities, any Subsidiary Guarantees and this Indenture may be served.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency.  If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1003.             .
Money for Security Payments to Be Held in Trust
 
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or interest on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of or interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (i) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent (as if such Act applied) and (ii) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent as such.
 
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
Subject to any applicable abandoned property laws, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
 
.
SECTION 1004.
                                     
Statement by Officers as to Default
 
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
.
SECTION 1005.
                                     
Existence
 
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.
 
.
SECTION 1006.
                                     
Maintenance of Properties
 
The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary Guarantor to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
provided
however
 
.
SECTION 1007.
                                     
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
 
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; , , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and which if unpaid would reasonably not be expected to result in a material adverse effect on the business,
provided
however
results of operations, or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
.
SECTION 1008.
                                     
Maintenance of Insurance
 
The Company shall, and shall cause any Subsidiary Guarantors to, keep at all times all of their properties which are of an insurable nature insured against loss or damage, and to maintain liability insurance, with insurers believed by the Company to be responsible to the extent that property of similar character is usually so insured, or liability insurance usually is so maintained, by corporations similarly situated and owning like properties in accordance with good business practice.
 
.
SECTION 1009.
                                     
Limitation on Liens
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to, create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien securing Indebtedness on (a) any Principal Property now owned or hereafter acquired by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or (b) shares of capital stock or Indebtedness of any Material Subsidiary owned by or owing to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or on any income, revenues or rights in respect of any such capital stock or Indebtedness, unless the Securities shall be equally and ratably secured.  This restriction shall not apply, however, to:
 
(i)
                                    
Liens existing on the date of this Indenture; that such Liens secure only those obligations which they secure as of the date of this Indenture;
provided
 
(ii)
                                 
Liens on any property securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed after the date of the Indenture for the purposes of financing all or any part of the cost of purchasing, constructing or improving such property (including any Capitalized Lease); that such Lien attaches to such property concurrently with or within 180 days after the purchase, completion of construction or improvement of such property and that such Lien applies to no other property of the Company or any Subsidiary;
provided
 
(iii)
                              
any Lien on any property of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company and not incurred in contemplation of such event;
 
(iv)
                             
any Lien on any property of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and not incurred in contemplation of such event;
 
(v)
                                
any Lien on any property existing prior to the acquisition thereof by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and not incurred in contemplation of such acquisition;
 
(vi)
                             
Liens securing any obligations of any Subsidiary of the Company to the Company or a Subsidiary;
 
(vii)
                          
Liens incurred to extend, renew or replace Liens referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above; that any such extension, renewal or replacement Lien shall be limited to the property covered by the Lien extended, renewed or replaced and that the
provided
obligation secured by such new Lien shall not be greater in amount than the obligations secured by the Lien extended, renewed or replaced (plus an amount in respect of reasonable financing fees and related transaction costs);
(viii)
                       
Liens incurred pursuant to any industrial revenue bond or similar conduit financing to secure the related Indebtedness, so long as such Lien is limited to the property of the related project;
 
(ix)
                               
Liens on Accounts Receivable that are the subject of a Permitted Receivables Financing (and any related property that would ordinarily be subjected to a Lien in connection with such Permitted Receivables Financing, such as proceeds and records);
 
(x)
                                  
Liens for taxes, governmental assessments, charges or levies in the nature of taxes not yet due and payable, or Liens for taxes, governmental assessments, charges or levies in the nature of taxes being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves, to the extent required by GAAP, have been established;
 
(xi)
                               
Liens imposed by law, which were incurred in the ordinary course of business and do not secure Indebtedness, such as carriers' warehousemen's, materialmen's, repairmen's, and mechanic's liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business, including without limitation, Liens in respect of litigation claims made or filed against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business, and (x) which do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of the property or assets subject to such Lien or materially impair the use of such property in the operation of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries or (y) which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, which proceedings have the effect of preventing the forfeiture or sale of the property or assets subject to any such Lien;
 
(xii)
                            
Permitted Encumbrances;
 
(xiii)
                         
utility deposits and pledges or deposits in connection with the worker's compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, or to secure the performance of tenders, statutory obligations, surety, customs and appeal bonds, bids, leases, performance and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations (exclusive of obligations for the payment of borrowed money);
 
(xiv)
                        
landlord's liens under leases to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party;
 
(xv)
                           
Liens arising from precautionary UCC financing statement or similar filings regarding operating leases; and
 
(xvi)
                        
Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses (i) through (xv) securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time not
exceeding the greater of (x) $235,000,000 and (y) 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets as at the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company for which the Company has publicly issued financial statements.
 
.
SECTION 1010.
                                     
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
 
The Company shall not enter into, or allow any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to enter into, any Sale and Leaseback Transaction except for Sale and Leaseback Transactions:
 
(i)
                                    
to which the sole parties are the Company and one or more Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company;
 
(ii)
                                 
which do not involve a lease term of more than three years; or
 
(iii)
                              
in connection with which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, within 120 days after the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, applies an amount equal to the greater of (a) the net proceeds of such sale or transfer and (b) the fair value, as determined by the Company's Board of Directors at the time of such sale or transfer, of the Principal Property sold pursuant to the Sale and Leaseback Transaction,
 
(x)
                                  
to the repayment or retirement (other than mandatory repayment or retirement) of Funded Debt of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary; or
 
(y)
                                
to the purchase of other property that will constitute Principal Property.
 
.
SECTION 1011.
                                     
Waiver of Certain Covenants
 
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 1005 through 1010, inclusive, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
ARTICLE ELEVEN
 
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
 
SECTION 1101.             .
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
The Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, elect to have either Section 1102 or Section 1103 applied to the Outstanding Securities upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article Eleven.
.
SECTION 1102.
                                     
Defeasance and Discharge
 
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 1101 applicable to this Section, the Company  shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance").  For this purpose, such defeasance means that (i) the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same) and (ii) any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from all of its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee, except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:  (A) the rights of Holders of such Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1104 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 307, 1002 and 1003, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article Eleven.  Subject to compliance with this Article Eleven the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1102 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1103.
 
.
SECTION 1103.
                                     
Covenant Defeasance
 
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 1101 applicable to this Section, (i) the Company  shall be released from its obligations under Sections 1006 through 1010, inclusive, and Clause (3) of Section 801 and (ii) the occurrence of an event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to any of Sections 1006 through 1010, inclusive) and 501(5) shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance").  For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that (a) the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section, Clause or Article, whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section, Clause or Article or by reason of any reference in any such Section, Clause or Article to any other provision herein or in any other document and (b) any Subsidiary Guarantors shall be released from all of their obligations under their Subsidiary Guarantees; but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
 
.
SECTION 1104.
                                     
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
 
The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1102 or Section 1103 to the then Outstanding Securities:
 
(1)   The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 609, who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Eleven applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a
combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of, and each installment of interest on the Securities on the Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of interest in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities.
 
(2)   In the case of an election under Section 1102, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an opinion of independent counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred.
 
(3)   In the case of an election under Section 1103, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and covenant defeasance had not occurred.
 
(4)   The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the Securities, if then listed on any securities exchange or approved for trading in any automated quotation system, will not be delisted or disapproved for such trading as a result of such deposit.
 
(5)   No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as subsections 501(6) and (7) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
(6)   Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act (assuming all Securities are in default within the meaning of such Act).
 
(7)   Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
 
(8)   The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to
either the defeasance under Section 1102 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1103 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
 
(9)   Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in the Trustee or the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended from time to time, or such trust shall be qualified under such act or exempt from regulation thereunder and the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to that effect.
 
.
SECTION 1105.
                                     
Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trusteecollectively, for purposes of this Section 1105, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1104 in respect of the Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1104 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities.
 
Anything in this Article Eleven to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request and be relieved of all liability with respect to any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1104 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance.
 
.
SECTION 1106.
                                     
Reinstatement
 
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1102 or 1103 by  reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article Eleven until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1102 or 1103; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or interest on any Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or the Paying Agent.
provided
however
.
SECTION 1201.
             
[Reserved]
 
.
SECTION 1202.
             
Subsidiary Guarantors
 
If any Subsidiary of the Company shall become a subsidiary guarantor under, and as such term is defined in, the Credit Agreement, the Company shall cause such Subsidiary concurrently to become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Trustee (a) a Subsidiary Guarantee substantially in the form established pursuant to Annex D and (b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such Subsidiary Guarantee has been duly authorized and executed by such Person and constitutes the valid, binding and enforceable obligation of such Person (subject to customary exceptions concerning creditors' rights and equitable principles).
 
A Subsidiary Guarantee shall be executed by manual signature on behalf of each respective Subsidiary Guarantor by any one of such Subsidiary Guarantor's Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President or Chief Financial Officer or Vice Presidents, attested by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary.
 
A Subsidiary Guarantee bearing the manual signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of a Subsidiary Guarantor shall bind such Subsidiary Guarantor, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guarantee or did not hold such offices at the date of such Subsidiary Guarantee.
 
.
SECTION 1203.
             
Subsidiary Guarantors May Consolidate,  Etc., on Certain Terms
 
Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall prevent any consolidation or merger of any Subsidiary Guarantor with or into the Company or any other  Subsidiary Guarantor or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of any Subsidiary Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor.
 
.
SECTION 1204.
             
Release of Subsidiary Guarantors
 
If a Subsidiary Guarantor is no longer a subsidiary guarantor under, and as such term is defined in, the Credit Agreement, and if the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate certifying to that effect as of the date of such Officers' Certificate, then automatically, without the requirement of any further action by the Company, such Subsidiary or the Trustee, such Subsidiary shall cease to be a Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder and shall have no further obligation or liability under its Subsidiary Guarantee.  The Trustee shall, at the Company's expense, execute and deliver such instruments as the Company may reasonably request to evidence such termination.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
US Bank, National Association, as Trustee
 Floor,
100 Wall St., 16
th
New York, New York 10005
Attention:  Corporate Trust Department
 
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009 (the "Indenture"), from Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") to US Bank, National Association, as Trustee.  Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Regulation S or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $                         principal amount of Securities, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Securities"):
 
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Securities or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Securities and is duly authorized by them to do so.  Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner".  If the Specified Securities are represented by a Global Security, they are held through the Depositary or an Agent Member in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.  If the Specified Securities are not represented by a Global Security, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Securities be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Security.  In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 904 or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies as follows:
 
.  If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 904:
(1)
         
Rule 904 Transfers
 
the Owner is not a distributor of the Securities, an affiliate of the Company or any such distributor or a person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing;
(A)
         
 
the offer of the Specified Securities was not made to a person in the United States;
(B)
          
 
either:
(C)
          
 
at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or the Owner and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the Transferee was outside the United States, or
(i)
                                    
 
the transaction is being executed in, on or through the facilities of the Eurobond market, as regulated by the Association of International Bond Dealers, or another designated offshore securities market and neither the Owner nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction has been prearranged with a buyer in the United States;
(ii)
                                 
 
no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States by or on behalf of the Owner or any affiliate thereof;
(D)
         
 
if the Owner is a dealer in securities or has received a selling concession, fee or other renumeration in respect of the Specified Securities, and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, then the requirements of Rule 904(b)(1) have been satisfied; and
(E)
          
 
the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
(F)
          
 
.  If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144:
(2)
         
Rule 144 Transfers
 
the transfer is occurring after August 5, 2009 and is being effected in accordance with the applicable amount, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144 and the current public information requirements under Rule 144 have been met; or
(A)
         
 
the transfer is occurring after August 5, 2009, and the Owner is not, and during the preceding three months has not been, an affiliate of the Company and the current public information requirements under Rule 144 have been met.
(B)
          
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantors and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
US Bank, National Association, as Trustee
 Floor
100 Wall St., 16
th
New York, New York 10005
Attention:  Corporate Trust Department
 
Re:  12% Senior Notes due 2014 of
Sealed Air Corporation (the "Securities")
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009 (the "Indenture"), from Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") to US Bank, National Association, as Trustee.  Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $                           principal amount of Securities, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Securities"):
 
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Securities or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Securities and is duly authorized by them to do so.  Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner".  If the Specified Securities are represented by a Global Security, they are held through the Depositary or an Agent Member in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.  If the Specified Securities are not represented by a Global Security, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Securities be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Restricted Security.  In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies as:
 
.  If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A:
(1)
          
Rule 144A Transfers
 
the Specified Securities are being transferred to a person that the Owner and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believe is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A, acquiring for its own account or for the account of a qualified institutional buyer; and
(A)
                             
 
the Owner and any person acting on its behalf have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the Transferee is aware that the Owner may be relying on Rule 144A in connection with the transfer; and
(B)
                               
 
.  If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144:
(2)
         
Rule 144 Transfers
 
the transfer is occurring after August 5, 2009 and is being effected in accordance with the applicable amount, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144 and the current public information requirements under Rule 144 have been met; or
(A)
                             
 
the transfer is occurring after August 5, 2009, and the Owner is not, and during the preceding three months has not been, an affiliate of the Company and the current public information requirements under Rule 144 have been met.
(B)
                               
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantors and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
US Bank, National Association, as Trustee
 Floor,
100 Wall St., 16
th
New York, New York 10005
Attention:  Corporate Trust Department
12% Senior Notes due 2014 of
Re:
                              
Sealed Air Corporation (the "Securities")
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009 (the "Indenture"), from Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") to US Bank, National Association, as Trustee.  Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $                           principal amount of Securities, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Securities"):
 
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Securities or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Securities and is duly authorized by them to do so.  Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner".  If the Specified Securities are represented by a Global Security, they are held through the Depositary or an Agent Member in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.  If the Specified Securities are not represented by a Global Security, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Securities be exchanged for Securities bearing no Securities Act Legend pursuant to Section 306(c) of the Indenture.  In connection with such exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that the exchange is occurring after a holding period of at least six months (computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of Rule 144) has elapsed since the Specified Securities were last acquired from the Company or from an affiliate of the company, whichever is later, and the Owner is not, and during the preceding three months has not been, an affiliate of the Company.  The Owner also acknowledges that any future
 
transfers of the Specified Securities must comply with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantors and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
For value received, the Subsidiary Guarantor named below, as of the date hereof, hereby unconditionally guarantees to the Holders of the 12% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Securities"), issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of February 6, 2009 between Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") and US Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the "Indenture"), for the benefit of whom this Subsidiary Guarantee is executed and delivered, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holders, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on such Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity, by acceleration, or otherwise, according to the terms thereof and of the Indenture referred to therein.  In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, the Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by acceleration, or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
 
The Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of such Security or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any creation, exchange, release or non-perfection of any Lien on any collateral for, or any release or amendment or waiver of any term of any other guarantee of, or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of, all or of any of the Securities, the election by the Trustee or any of the Holders in any proceeding under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code of the application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code, any borrowing or grant of a security interest by the Company, as debtor-in-possession, under Section 364 of the Bankruptcy Code, the disallowance, under Section 502 of the Bankruptcy Code, of all or any portion of the claims of the Trustee or any of the Holders for payment of any of the Securities, any waiver or consent by the Holder of such Security or by the Trustee or either of them with respect to any provisions thereof or of the Indenture, the obtaining of any judgment against the Company or any action to enforce the same or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor.  The Subsidiary Guarantor hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand of payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other Lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that this Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged, while it remains a Subsidiary Guarantor, except by complete performance of the obligations contained in such Security and in this Subsidiary Guarantee.  The Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees that, in the event of a default in payment of principal or interest on such Security, whether at their Stated Maturity, by acceleration, or otherwise, legal proceedings may be instituted by the Trustee on behalf of, or by, the Holder of
such Security, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture, directly against the Subsidiary Guarantor to enforce this Subsidiary Guarantee without first proceeding against the Company.  The Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of the Securities, to collect interest on the Securities, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to the Securities, the Subsidiary Guarantor agrees to pay to the Trustee for the account of the Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of the Holders.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Subsidiary Guarantee or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the Subsidiary Guarantee of the Subsidiary Guarantor, which is absolute and unconditional, of the due and punctual payment of the principal and interest on the Securities.
 
The Subsidiary Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Securities against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by the Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Subsidiary Guarantee; , , that the Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all of the Securities issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
provided
however
 
This Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any significant part of the Company's assets.
 
The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder are limited to the maximum amount that would cause the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantor under this Subsidiary Guarantee not to constitute a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under Federal or State law, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Subsidiary Guarantor (including, without limitation, any guarantees under the Credit Agreement) and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Subsidiary Guarantor under its Subsidiary Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations set forth in the following paragraph.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, this Subsidiary Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of the Securities is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any obligee on the Securities, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer" or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made.  In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, the Securities shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
To the extent that any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be required to pay any amounts on account of the Securities pursuant to its Subsidiary Guarantee in excess of the greater of (i) the amount of the economic benefit actually received by such Subsidiary Guarantor from the issuance of the Securities and (ii) an amount calculated as the product of (A) the aggregate amount payable by the Subsidiary Guarantors on account of the Securities pursuant to the Subsidiary Guarantees times (B) the proportion (expressed as a fraction) that such Subsidiary Guarantor's net worth at the date enforcement of the Subsidiary Guarantees is sought bears to the aggregate net worth of all Subsidiary Guarantors at such date, then such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be reimbursed by the other Subsidiary Guarantors for the amount of such excess, pro rata, based upon the respective net worth of such other Subsidiary Guarantors at the date enforcement of the Subsidiary Guarantees is sought.  This paragraph is intended only to define the relative rights of Subsidiary Guarantors as among themselves, and nothing set forth in this paragraph is intended to or shall impair the joint and several obligations of Subsidiary Guarantors under their respective Subsidiary Guarantees.
 
The Subsidiary Guarantor shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Subsidiary Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under this Subsidiary Guarantee.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Subsidiary Guarantee or the Indenture, the Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from this Subsidiary Guarantee if and when it ceases to be a subsidiary guarantor under, and as such term is defined in, the Credit Agreement, as provided in the Indenture.
 
No stockholder, officer, director, employer or incorporator, past, present or future, of the Subsidiary Guarantor, as such, shall have any personal liability under any Subsidiary Guarantee by reason of his, her or its status as such stockholder, officer, director, employer or incorporator.
 
All terms used in this Subsidiary Guarantee shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until delivered to the Trustee.
 
THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Subsidiary Guarantor has caused this Subsidiary Guarantee to be duly executed.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of February 6, 2009 (this ""), between Sealed Air Corporation, a company organized under the laws of the state of Delaware (the "") and Davis Selected Advisers, L.P., Geico Indemnity Company and General Re Life Corporation (each a "" and collectively the "") pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated February 6, 2009 (as amended from time to time, the " "), between the Company and the Purchasers.  In order to induce the Purchasers to enter into the Note Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
Agreement
Company
Purchaser
Purchasers
Note
Purchase Agreement
 
The Company agrees with the Purchasers, (i) for their benefit as Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the beneficial owners (including the Purchasers) from time to time of the Notes (as defined herein) (each of the foregoing a "" and together the ""), as follows:
Holder
Holders
 
SECTION 1..  Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Note Purchase Agreement.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
  Definitions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(d).
Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
"" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Company
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(h).
Deferral Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(h).
Deferral Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
Effectiveness Period
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the second paragraph of the preamble.
Holder
 
"" means the Indenture, dated as of February 6, 2009, among the Company and the Trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued.
Indenture
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(h).
Material Event
 
"" means the 12% Senior Notes due 2014 of the Company to be purchased pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement.
Notes
 
"" means a written notice delivered to the Company containing substantially the information called for by the selling securityholder notice and questionnaire, a form of which is available upon request to the Company.
Notice and Questionnaire
 
"" means, on any date, any Holder that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date.
Notice Holder
 
"" means a corporation, limited liability company, association, partnership, organization, business, individual, government or political subdivision thereof or governmental agency.
Person
 
" " has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Note
Purchase Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchasers
 
"" means the prospectus included in any Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments and all materials incorporated by reference or explicitly deemed to be incorporated by reference into such prospectus.
Prospectus
 
"" means the Notes, but excludes any Notes that are, as of the relevant date of determination (or will be at the time the Shelf Registration Statement is required to be effective), eligible to be sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act where no conditions of Rule 144 are then applicable (other than the holding period requirement in paragraph (d) of Rule 144 so long as such holding period requirement is satisfied) or may otherwise be freely traded without restriction. Throughout this Agreement, the holders of a majority of Registrable Securities shall mean holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities.
Registrable Securities
 
"" means any registration statement of the Company that covers any of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, including the Prospectus, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits and all materials incorporated by reference or explicitly deemed to be incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
 
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC thereunder.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means such counsel as shall be specified by the Holders of a majority of all Registrable Securities, but which may, with the written consent of the Purchasers (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), be another nationally recognized law firm experienced in securities law matters designated by the Company, the reasonable fees and expenses of which will be paid by the Company pursuant to Section 5.
Special Counsel
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee under the Indenture.
Trustee
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8(a).
Underwritten Holders
 
SECTION 2.. 
  Shelf Registration
(a) 
The Company agrees that if:
 
On August 5, 2009 any Registrable Securities are held by any Person other than an Affiliate of the Company;
(i)           
 
At any time after August 5, 2009 the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of Rule 144 are not satisfied with respect to the Securities; or
(ii)          
 
A Holder of Registrable Securities, on and after August 5, 2009 and at any time prior to the maturity of such Registrable Securities, that is an Affiliate of the Company, requests;
(iii)         
 
the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to file a Registration Statement for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by the Holders of, all of the Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 415 or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC (a ""), registering the resale from time to time by Holders thereof of all the Registrable Securities (the ""), and use its best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective under the Securities Act, (x) no later than September 3, 2009 in the case of clause (i) above, (y) as soon as practicable in the case of clause (ii) above and (z) by the 60th day after the date of receipt of notice requesting registration from a Notice Holder but not before the six-month anniversary of the last date of original issuance of the Notes, in the case of clause (iii) above, each such date, an "."  The Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be on Form S-3 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Securities for resale by such Holders in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Holders and set forth in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement.  At the time the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, each Holder that became a Notice Holder on or prior to the date five (5) Business Days prior to such time of effectiveness shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law.
Shelf Registration Statement
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
Effectiveness Deadline Date
None of the Company's security holders (other than the Holders of Registrable Securities) shall have the right to include any of the Company's securities in the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
The Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Initial Shelf Registration Statement (or any Subsequent Registration Statement) continuously effective, subject to Section 3(h), (A) with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement filed in accordance with Sections 2(a)(i) and 2(a)(ii), until the earliest of: (x) one year from the last date of original issuance of the Notes; (y) the date by which all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement; and (z) such date as each of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be a Registrable Security; or (B) with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement filed in accordance with Sections 2(a)(iii), until the earlier of: (x) the date by which all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement; and (y) such date as each of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be a Registrable Security (the "").  If the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within forty-five (45) days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Shelf Registration Statement in a manner reasonably expected to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional Shelf Registration Statement (a "") covering all the securities that as of the date of such filing are Registrable Securities.  If a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to become effective as promptly as is practicable after such filing.
(b)          
Effectiveness Period
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
 
The Company shall supplement and amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or as otherwise required by the Securities Act or as necessary to name a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder pursuant to Section 2(d).
(c)          
 
Each Holder agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus, it will do so only in accordance with this Section 2(d), Section 3(h), and Section 4.  Following the date that the Initial Shelf Registration Statement becomes or is declared effective, each Holder wishing to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus agrees to deliver a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company at least five (5) Business Days prior to any intended distribution of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement.  Each Holder who elects to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement agrees that, by submitting a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company, it will be bound by the terms and conditions of the Notice and Questionnaire and this Agreement.  From and after the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement becomes or is declared effective, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered pursuant to Section 9(c), and in any event upon the later of (x) fifteen (15) Business Days after such date or (y) fifteen (15) Business Days after the expiration of any Deferral Period that is in effect when the Notice and Questionnaire is delivered or that is put into effect within fifteen (15) Business Days of such delivery date:
(d)          
if required by applicable law, file with the SEC a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or prepare and, if required by applicable law, file a supplement to the related Prospectus or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable, but in any event by the date (the "") that is sixty (60) days after the date such post-effective amendment is required by this clause to be filed; and
(i)           
Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
provide such Holder copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i); that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Deferral Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire.  The Company shall notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Securities Act of any post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, (i) the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Registration Statement or related Prospectus and (ii) the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date shall be extended by up to ten (10) Business Days from the expiration of a Deferral Period if such Deferral Period shall be in effect on the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date.
(ii)          
provided
 
The Trustee shall be entitled, on behalf of Holders, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement.  Nothing shall preclude a Notice Holder or Holder from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or other equitable relief with respect to this Agreement.
(e)          
 
SECTION 3..  In connection with the registration obligations of the Company under Section 2, during the Effectiveness Period, the Company shall:
  Registration Procedures
 
Prepare and file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statements on any appropriate form under the Securities Act available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders thereof in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause each such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; that before filing any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the SEC (but excluding reports filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act), furnish to the Purchasers and the Special Counsel, if any, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed at least three (3) Business Days prior to the filing of such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment thereto or Prospectus or supplement thereto, or such shorter period as may be agreed upon by the Purchasers and the Special Counsel.
(a)          
provided
Subject to Section 3(h), prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective for the applicable period specified in Section 2(b); cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act; and use its reasonable efforts to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to it with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement during the Effectiveness Period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement as so amended or such Prospectus as so supplemented.
(b)          
 
As promptly as practicable give notice to the Notice Holders, the Purchasers and the Special Counsel, if any (i) when any Prospectus, prospectus supplement, Registration Statement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement has been filed with the SEC and, with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has been declared effective, (ii) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement under the Securities Act, by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to any Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus or for additional information relating to the Shelf Registration Statement, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the occurrence of, but not the nature of or details concerning, a Material Event (as defined below) and (vi) of the determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement will be filed with the SEC, which notice may, at the discretion of the Company (or as required pursuant to Section 3(h)), state that it constitutes a Deferral Notice, in which event the provisions of Section 3(h) shall apply.
(c)          
 
Use its reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction in which they have been qualified for sale, in either case at the earliest possible moment, and provide immediate notice to each Notice Holder and the Purchasers of the withdrawal of any such order.
(d)          
 
As promptly as practicable furnish to each Notice Holder, the Special Counsel, if any, and the Purchasers, upon request and without charge, at least one (1) conformed copy of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, including exhibits and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference.
(e)          
 
Deliver to each Notice Holder, the Special Counsel, if any, and the Purchasers, in connection with any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus relating to such Registrable Securities (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such persons may reasonably request; and the Company hereby consents (except during such periods
(f)           
that a Deferral Notice is outstanding and has not been revoked) to the use of such Prospectus or each amendment or supplement thereto by each Notice Holder in connection with any offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein.
 
Prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Notice Holders and the Special Counsel, if any, in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Notice Holder reasonably requests in writing (which request may be included in the Notice and Questionnaire); prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effectiveness Period in connection with such Notice Holder's offer and sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities in the manner set forth in the relevant Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus; that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Agreement or (ii) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in suits or to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
(g)          
provided
 
Upon (A) the issuance by the SEC of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of proceedings with respect to any Shelf Registration Statement under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, (B) the occurrence of any event or the existence of any fact (a "") as a result of which any Shelf Registration Statement shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or any Prospectus shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (C) the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development that, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of any Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus:
(h)          
Material Event
 
in the case of clause (B) above, subject to the next sentence, as promptly as practicable prepare and file, if necessary pursuant to applicable law, a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document that would be incorporated by reference into such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus so that such Shelf Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the
(i)           
Registrable Securities being sold thereunder, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement, subject to the next sentence, use its reasonable efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is practicable, and
 
give notice to the Notice Holders and the Special Counsel, if any, that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended (a "") and, upon receipt of any Deferral Notice, each Notice Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Notice Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in clause (i) above, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
(ii)          
Deferral Notice
 
The Company will use its reasonable efforts to ensure that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed (x) in the case of clause (A) above, as promptly as is practicable, (y) in the case of clause (B) above, as soon as, in the sole judgment of the Company, public disclosure of such Material Event would not be prejudicial to or contrary to the interests of the Company or, if necessary to avoid unreasonable burden or expense, as soon as practicable thereafter, and (z) in the case of clause (C) above, as soon as, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, such suspension is no longer appropriate.  The Company shall be entitled to exercise its right under this Section 3(h) to suspend the availability of any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus (the ""); that the aggregate duration of any Deferral Periods shall not exceed 45 days in any three month period or 120 days in any twelve (12) month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any Material Events relating to any possible acquisitions or financings, recapitalizations, business combinations or other similar material transactions involving the Company, the Company may suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement for up to an aggregate of 180 days in any twelve (12) month period (with no limitation on the aggregate duration of any such Deferral Period in any three-month period).
Deferral Period
provided
 
If reasonably requested in writing in connection with a disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours by a representative for the Notice Holders of such Registrable Securities, any broker-dealers, underwriters, attorneys and accountants retained by such Notice Holders, and any attorneys or other agents retained by a broker-dealer or underwriter engaged by such Notice Holders, all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and cause the appropriate officers, directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours on reasonable notice all relevant information reasonably requested by such representative for the Notice Holders, or any such broker-dealers, underwriters, attorneys or accountants in connection with such disposition, in each case as is customary for similar "due diligence" examinations, other than those subject to an attorney-client or other privilege; that such persons shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information provided by or on behalf of the Company shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising rights under this Agreement, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the
(i)           
provided
filing of any Shelf Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person or (iv) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement; and further that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall, to the greatest extent possible, be coordinated on behalf of all the Notice Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by the Special Counsel, if any, or another representative selected by a majority of Registrable Securities being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.  Any person legally compelled or required by administrative or court order or by a regulatory authority to disclose any such confidential information made available for inspection shall provide the Company with prompt prior written notice of such requirement so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy.
provided
 
Comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to its securityholders earnings statements (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) for a 12-month period commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company commencing after the effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement, which statements shall be made available no later than 45 days after the end of the 12-month period or 90 days if the 12-month period coincides with the fiscal year of the Company. Compliance with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC satisfies the Company's obligation to provide such earnings statement if the Company is then a reporting company subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(j)           
 
Cooperate with each Notice Holder to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold or to be sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends, and cause such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations as are permitted by the Indenture and registered in such names as such Notice Holder may request in writing at least two (2) Business Days prior to any sale of such Registrable Securities.
(k)          
 
Provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities covered by each Shelf Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement and, if requested, provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
(l)           
 
Cooperate and assist in any necessary filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA").
(m)         
 
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement involving an underwritten offering, the Company shall enter into such customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in reasonably customary form) and take all such other action, if any, as Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold or any managing underwriters reasonably shall request in order to facilitate any disposition of Notes pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, including, without limitation, (i) using its reasonable efforts to cause its counsel to deliver an opinion or opinions in reasonably customary form, (ii) using its reasonable efforts to cause its officers to execute and deliver all customary documents and certificates and (iii) 
(n)          
using its reasonable efforts to cause its independent public accountants to provide a comfort letter or letters in reasonably customary form.
 
Cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a manner prescribed by the Trust Indenture Act and shall enter into any necessary supplemental indentures in connection therewith.
(o)          
 
Upon (i) the filing of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and (ii) the effectiveness of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement, announce the same, in each case by release to Reuters Economic Services and Bloomberg Business News.
(p)          
 
Enter into such customary agreements and take such other reasonable and lawful actions in connection therewith (including those reasonably requested by Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities) in order to expedite or facilitate disposition of such Registrable Securities.
(q)          
 
SECTION 4..  Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Notice and Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(d) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Notice and Questionnaire) and the information set forth in the next sentence.  Each Notice Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder not misleading and any other information regarding such Notice Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request.  Any sale of any Registrable Securities by any Holder shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Holder that the information relating to such Holder and its plan of distribution is as set forth in the Prospectus delivered by such Holder in connection with such disposition, that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale contain any untrue statement of a material fact relating to or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution and that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale omit to state any material fact relating to or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution necessary to make the statements in such Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Each Holder further agrees, by acquiring Registrable Securities, that it will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, take any action that would result in the Company being required to file with the SEC under Rule 433(d) a free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of such Holder that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder but for the action of such Holder.
  Holder's Obligations
 
Each Holder agrees by acquisition of any Registrable Securities that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(c)(ii), 3(c)(iii), 3(c)(iv), 3(c)(v) or 3(c)(vi) hereof, or of a Deferral Period pursuant to Section 3(h) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of such Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to such Registration Statement or Prospectus until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Registration Statement or Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(h)(i) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by
the Company that the use of the applicable Registration Statement or Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies or any amendments or supplements thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company shall not have any liability for any incremental expenses incurred as a result of an underwritten offering of any Registrable Securities.
 
SECTION 5.  The Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance by the Company of its obligations under Sections 2 and 3 of this Agreement whether or not any Shelf Registration Statement becomes or is declared effective.  Such fees and expenses shall include, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, fees and expenses of compliance with federal and state securities or Blue Sky laws), (ii) printing expenses (including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company), (iii) duplication expenses relating to copies of any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus delivered to any Holders hereunder, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, (v) reasonable fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel and (vi) any Securities Act liability insurance obtained by the Company in its sole discretion.  In addition, the Company shall pay the internal expenses of the Company (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any person, including special experts, retained by the Company.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, each seller of Registrable Securities shall pay selling expenses, including any underwriting discount and commissions, all registration expenses to the extent required by applicable law and, except as otherwise provided herein, fees and expenses of counsel to such seller and the Company shall not have any liability for any incremental expenses incurred as a result of an underwritten offering of any Registrable Securities.
.  Registration Expenses
 
  Upon the registration of the Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2, the Company shall  indemnify and hold harmless each Notice Holder and each underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Registrable Securities, and each of their respective officers and directors and each person who controls such Notice Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Shelf Registration Statement under which such Registrable Securities are to be registered under the Securities Act, or any Prospectus contained therein or furnished by the Company to any such person, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and the Company hereby agrees to reimburse such person for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , however, that the Company shall not be liable to any such person in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, or amendment or supplement, in reliance upon and in conformity with written
SECTION 6.
 
Indemnification and Contribution
by the Company.
provided
information furnished to the Company by any Notice Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional expressly for use therein.
 
  Each Notice Holder agrees, as a consequence of the inclusion of any of such Notice Holder's Registrable Securities in such Shelf Registration Statement, and each underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional, if any, which facilitates the disposition of Registrable Securities shall agree, as a consequence of facilitating such disposition of Registrable Securities, severally and not jointly, to (i) indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, officers who sign any Shelf Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, or any other Holder, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to such Holder, but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company or such other persons may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder, underwriter, selling agent or other securities professional expressly for use therein, and (ii) reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred. In connection with any underwritten offering pursuant to Section 8, each Holder will also indemnify the underwriters, if any, their officers and directors and each person who controls such underwriters (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided herein with respect to the indemnification of the Company, if requested in connection with any Registration Statement.
(b)          
Indemnification by the Notice Holders and any Agents and Underwriters.
 
(c)           .  In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 6(a) or 6(b), such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing and the Indemnifying Party, upon request of the Indemnified Party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party to represent the Indemnified Party and any others the Indemnifying Party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding.  In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless (i) the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.  It is understood that the Indemnifying Party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any
Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all such Indemnified Parties and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred.  Such firm shall be designated in writing by, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a), the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities covered by the Registration Statement that are Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 6(a) and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b), the Company.  The Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Party agrees to indemnify the Indemnified Party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.  No Indemnifying Party shall, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
 
(d)           .  To the extent that the indemnification provided for in Section 6(a) or 6(b) is unavailable to an Indemnified Party or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Indemnifying Party or Parties on the one hand and the Indemnified Party or Parties on the other hand or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party or Parties on the one hand and of the Indemnified Party or Parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of the Holders on the one hand and the Company on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Holders or by the Company, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The Holders' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 6 are several in proportion to the respective number of Registrable Securities they have sold pursuant to a Registration Statement, and not joint.
Contribution
 
The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6(d) were determined by any method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph.  The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim.  Notwithstanding this Section 6, no Indemnifying Party that is a selling Holder shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Registrable Securities sold by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages that such
Indemnifying Party has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
The remedies provided for in this Section 6 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to an Indemnified Party at law or in equity, hereunder, under the Purchase Agreement or otherwise.
(e)          
 
(f)            The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 6 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder, any person controlling any Holder or any affiliate of any Holder or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (iii) the sale of any Registrable Securities by any Holder.
SECTION 7..  The Company covenants that, if at any time before the end of the Effectiveness Period the Company is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, it will cooperate with any Holder and take such further reasonable action as any Holder may reasonably request in writing (including, without limitation, making such reasonable representations as any such Holder may reasonably request), all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rule 144 and Rule 144A under the Securities Act and customarily taken in connection with sales pursuant to such exemptions.  Upon the written request of any Holder, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such filing requirements, unless such a statement has been included in the Company's most recent report filed pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of Exchange Act.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities under any section of the Exchange Act.
  Information Requirements
 
SECTION 8..  The Holders of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities to an underwriter in an underwritten offering for reoffering to the public (the ""), subject to the consent of the Company (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).  If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will administer the offering will be selected by the Company and the Holders of a majority of such Registrable Securities included in such offering, and such Holders shall be responsible for all underwriting commissions and discounts and any transfer taxes in connection therewith.  No person may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Registrable Securities on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
  Underwritten Registrations
Underwritten Holders
 
If the managing underwriter(s) for such underwritten offering advises the Company and the representative for the Underwritten Holders that the amount of Registrable Securities requested to be included therein exceeds the amount of Registrable Securities that can be sold in such underwritten offering or that the amount of Registrable Securities proposed to be included in any such underwritten offering would materially and adversely affect the price of the Company's Notes to be sold in such underwritten offering, the amount of Registrable Securities to be included in such underwritten offering shall be the amount of Registrable Securities which in the opinion of such managing underwriter(s) can be sold.  If the amount which can be sold is less than the amount of Registrable Securities requested to be included in such underwritten offering, any securities to be sold by the Underwritten Holders shall be reduced pro rata on the basis of the amount requested to be registered by such Underwritten Holders or as such Underwritten Holders may otherwise agree.
 
SECTION 9.  Miscellaneous
.
 
.  The Company is not, as of the date hereof, a party to, nor shall it, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement.  The Company represents and warrants that the rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any other agreements.
(a)
                                 
No Conflicting Agreements
 
.  The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of Registrable Securities.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by Holders of at least a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Registration Statement; that the provisions of this sentence may not be amended, modified or supplemented except in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, this Agreement may be amended by written agreement signed by the Company and the Purchasers, without the consent of the Holders of Registrable Securities, to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Agreement that shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Registrable Securities.  Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent or thereafter shall be bound by any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this Section 9(b), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder.
(b)
                                
Amendments and Waivers
provided
 
.  All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, by telecopier, by courier guaranteeing overnight delivery or by first-class mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed given (i) when made, if made by hand delivery, (ii) upon confirmation, if made by facsimile, (iii) one (1) Business Day after being deposited with such courier, if made by overnight courier or (iv) on the date indicated on the notice of receipt, if made by first-class mail, to the parties as follows:
(c)
                                 
Notices
 
if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company in a Notice and Questionnaire or any amendment thereto;
(i)
                                    
 
if to the Company, to:
(ii)
                                 
 
Sealed Air Corporation,
200 Riverfront Boulevard,
Elmwood Park, New Jersey 07407
Attention: General Counsel and Secretary
Fax: (201) 703-4219
with a copy to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, New York 10036
Attention:  Robert Chilstrom, Esq.
Fax:  (212) 735-2000
 
if to the respective Purchasers, to:
(iii)
                              
 
Davis Selected Advisers, L.P.,
2949 East Elvira Road, Suite 101,
Tucson, AZ 85756,
Telephone number: (520) 434-3771,
Facsimile number: (520) 434-3770,
Attention: Thomas Tays, Chief Legal Officer
 
and
 
Geico Indemnity Company
c/o Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
1440 Kiewit Plaza
Omaha, NE  68131
Telephone number: (402) 978-5429,
Facsimile number: (402) 346 3375,
Attention: Mark D. Millard
and
 
General Re Life Corporation
c/o Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
1440 Kiewit Plaza
Omaha, NE  68131
Telephone number: (402) 978-5429,
Facsimile number: (402) 346 3375,
Attention: Mark D. Millard
 
or to such other address as such person may have furnished to the other persons identified in this Section 9(c) in writing in accordance herewith.
 
.  Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or its Subsidiaries shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage; , , that this Section 9(d) shall not apply to any consent, modification, amendment or waiver of any provision of this agreement which would only affect the rights or remedies of the Company or its Subsidiaries as Holders of Registrable Securities and which would not adversely affect the rights or remedies of any Holder of Registrable Securities other than the Company or its Subsidiaries.
(d)
                                
Approval of Holders
provided
however
 
.  Any person who purchases any Registrable Securities from the Purchasers shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, to be an assignee of the Purchasers.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties and shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each Holder of any Registrable Securities, provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Indenture.  If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities, such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
(e)
                                 
Successors and Assigns
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
(f)
                                   
Counterparts
 
.  The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
(g)
                                
Headings
 
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
(h)
                                
Governing Law
 
.  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms,
(i)
                                    
Severability
provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated thereby, and the parties hereto shall use their reasonable efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
 
.  This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and is intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities.  Except as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes, there are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein, with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities.  This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings among the parties with respect to such registration rights.  No party hereto shall have any rights, duties or obligations other than those specifically set forth in this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes.
(j)
                                    
Entire Agreement
 
.  This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate upon the later of (i) the end of the Effectiveness Period and (ii) the date on which there are no Registrable Securities, except, in each case, for any liabilities or obligations under Section 4, 5 or 6, each of which shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
(k)
                                 
Termination
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
SEALED AIR CORPORATION
 
 
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
 
SEALED AIR CORPORATION
 
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
(the "Agreement") is made as of the 6th day of February, 2009 (the "") by and among a Delaware corporation (the ""), and and (individually, a "" and collectively, the "").
THIS NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
Effective Date
SEALED AIR CORPORATION,
Company
DAVIS SELECTED ADVISERS, L.P., GEICO INDEMNITY COMPANY
GENERAL RE LIFE CORPORATION
Purchaser
Purchasers
 
The parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
AMOUNT AND TERMS OF THE LOAN
                                     
 
.  Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Purchaser agrees to lend to the Company the amount set forth opposite each such Purchaser's name on the Schedule of Purchasers (each, a "") against the issuance and delivery by the Company of a promissory note or notes for the Loan Amount (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), which Notes will be issued under an indenture (the "") in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and which will have the benefit of registration rights under a registration rights agreement (the "") in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
1.1
The Loan
                              
Loan Amount
Note
Notes
Indenture
Registration Rights Agreement
 
2.
THE CLOSING
                                     
 
  The closing of the purchase and sale of the Notes (the "") shall be held on the Effective Date, or at such other time as the Company and the Purchasers shall agree (the "").
2.1
Closing Date.
                              
Closing
Closing Date
 
  At the Closing (i) each Purchaser will deliver to the Company or to its order such Purchaser's Loan Amount as indicated on the Schedule of Purchasers by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company to account number: 5800393034 at Bank of America NA, New York, NY, ABA number: 026009593, Reference:  Senior Note Proceeds; and (ii) the Company shall issue and deliver to each Purchaser Notes through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company in favor of such Purchaser payable in the principal amount of such Purchaser's Loan Amount.
2.2
Delivery.
                              
 
3.
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY
                                     
 
The Company hereby represents and warrants to each Purchaser as follows:
 
.  The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.  The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted and to own and operate its properties and assets.  The Company is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which failure to so
3.1
Organization and Good Standing
                              
qualify would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one entity.
 
.  The Company has and will have at the Closing Date all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Registration Rights Agreement and to carry out and perform its obligations under the terms of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Registration Rights Agreement.
3.2
Corporate
                              
Power
 
  All corporate action on the part of the Company necessary for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder, including the issuance and delivery of the Notes, has been taken or will be taken prior to the issuance of the Notes.  This Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Registration Rights Agreement, when executed and delivered by the Company, shall constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) with respect to rights to indemnity, federal and state securities laws.
3.3
Authorization.
                              
 
.  All consents, approvals, orders, or authorizations of, or registrations, qualifications, designations, declarations, or filings with, any governmental authority, required on the part of the Company in connection with the valid execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, the offer, sale and issuance of the Notes and the consummation of any other transaction contemplated hereby (except such additional steps as may be required by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in connection with transactions contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, or such additional steps as may be necessary to qualify the Notes for public offering under state securities or Blue Sky laws) shall have been obtained and will be effective at the Closing.
3.4
Governmental Consents
                              
 
.  Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has offered the Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any person other than the Purchasers, each of which has been offered the Notes as a private sale for investment.  Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or to the registration requirements of any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
3.5
Private Offering by the Company
                              
1933 Act
 
  Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Purchasers contained in Section 4 hereof, the offer, issue, and sale of the Notes are and will be exempt from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act, and have been registered or qualified (or are exempt from registration and qualification) under the registration, permit, or qualification requirements of all applicable state securities laws.
3.6
Offering.
                              
. The execution and delivery by the Company, and the performance by the Company of its obligations under, this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and the Registration Rights Agreement will not contravene any provision of applicable law or the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or any agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, or any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary.
3.7
Non-Contravention
                              
 
. While any of the Notes remain "restricted securities" within the meaning of the 1933 Act, the Company will make available, upon request, to any seller of such Notes the information specified in Rule 144A(d)(4) under the 1933 Act, unless the Company is then subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
3.8
Information Requirement
                              
 
4.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF THE PURCHASERS
                                     
 
.  Each Purchaser represents that it is acquiring the Notes solely for its own account and beneficial interest or for the account and beneficial interest of another entity that is (i) a "qualified institutional buyer" ("") within the meaning of Rule 144A of the 1933 Act and (ii) named on Schedule 1 hereto, in each case, for investment and not for sale or with a view to distribution of the Notes or any part thereof, that it or such account has no present intention of selling (in connection with a distribution or otherwise), granting any participation in, or otherwise distributing the same, and does not presently have reason to anticipate a change in such intention.
4.1
Purchase for Own Account
                              
QIB
 
.  Without lessening or obviating the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 3, each Purchaser on its own behalf, and on behalf of any account for which it is purchasing Notes, hereby: (i) acknowledges that it has received all the information it has requested from the Company that it considers necessary or appropriate for deciding whether to acquire the Notes, (ii) represents that it has had an opportunity to ask questions and receive answers from the Company regarding the terms and conditions of the offering of the Notes and to obtain any additional information necessary to verify the accuracy of the information given such Purchaser and (iii) further represents that it has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable of evaluating the merits and risk of this investment.
4.2
Information and Sophistication
                              
 
.  Each Purchaser on its own behalf, and on behalf of any account for which it is purchasing Notes, acknowledges that investment in the Notes involves a high degree of risk, and represents that it is able, without materially impairing its financial condition, to hold the Notes for an indefinite period of time and to suffer a complete loss of its investment.
4.3
Ability to Bear Economic Risk
                              
 
.  Without in any way limiting the representations set forth above, each Purchaser on its own behalf, and on behalf of any account for which it is purchasing Notes, further agrees not to make any disposition of all or any portion of the Notes unless and until:
4.4
Further Limitations on Disposition
                              
There is then in effect a Registration Statement under the 1933 Act covering such proposed disposition and such disposition is made in accordance with such Registration Statement; or
(a)
                                 
 
The Purchaser shall have notified the Company of the proposed disposition and shall have furnished the Company with a detailed statement of the circumstances surrounding the proposed disposition, and if reasonably requested by the Company, such Purchaser shall have furnished the Company with an opinion of counsel, reasonably satisfactory to the Company, that such disposition will not require registration under the 1933 Act, or any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
(b)
                                 
 
  Each Purchaser represents that it is a QIB.
4.5
Qualified Institutional Buyer Status.
                              
 
  Each Purchaser on its own behalf, and on behalf of any account for which it is purchasing Notes, represents and warrants that it has not employed or retained any broker, finder, financial advisor, investment banker or other person or entity who might be entitled to any brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission or similar charges in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
4.6
Brokers and Finders.
                              
 
  Each Purchaser represents that (i) it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement, (ii) all corporate action on the part of such Purchaser necessary for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Purchaser and the performance of such Purchaser's obligations hereunder has been taken, (iii) this Agreement, when executed and delivered by such Purchaser, shall constitute a valid and binding obligation of such Purchaser enforceable against such Purchaser in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) with respect to rights to indemnity, federal and state securities laws.
4.7
Authorization.
                              
 
EachPurchaser signing this Agreement is acquiring the Notes for its own account or for the accounts of one or more entities as to which the Purchaser is authorized to make the acknowledgements, representations and warranties contained herein, and to enter into this Agreement.
4.8
Authorization on Behalf of Accounts.
                              
 
  Each Purchaser agrees and covenants that at any time and from time to time it will promptly execute and deliver to the Company such further instruments and documents and take such further action as the Company may reasonably require in order to carry out the full intent and purpose of this Agreement and to comply with state or federal securities laws or other regulatory approvals.
4.9
Further Assurances.
                              
 
5.
MISCELLANEOUS
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the respective successors and assigns of the parties.  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any third party any rights,
5.1
Binding
                              
Agreement
remedies, obligations, or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement, except as expressly provided in this Agreement.
 
  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
5.2
Governing Law.
                              
 
  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
5.3
Counterparts.
                              
 
.  The titles and subtitles used in this Agreement are used for convenience only and are not to be considered in construing or interpreting this Agreement.
5.4
Titles and Subtitles
                              
 
All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed effectively given: (a) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified, (b) when sent by confirmed telex or facsimile if sent during normal business hours of the recipient, if not, then on the next business day, (c) five (5) days after having been sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (d) one (1) day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, specifying next day delivery, with written verification of receipt.  All communications shall be sent to the Company at Sealed Air Corporation, 200 Riverfront Boulevard, Elmwood Park, New Jersey 07407, telephone number (201) 703-4110, facsimile number (201) 703-4219, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, with copies to: (a) Sealed Air Corporation, 200 Riverfront Boulevard, Elmwood Park, New Jersey 07407, telephone number (201) 703-4145, facsimile number (201) 703-4231, Attention: General Counsel, and (b) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York, New York 10036, telephone number (212) 735-3000, facsimile number (212) 735-2000, Attention: Robert Chilstrom, and to the respective Purchasers at Davis Selected Advisers, L.P., 2949 East Elvira Road, Suite 101, Tucson, AZ 85756, telephone number: (520) 434-3771, facsimile number: (520) 434-3770, Attention: Thomas Tays, Chief Legal Officer; Geico Indemnity Company, c/o Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, telephone number: (402) 978-5429, facsimile number: (402) 346 3375, Attention: Mark D. Millard; and General Re Life Corporation, c/o Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, NE 68131, telephone number: (402) 978-5429, facsimile number: (402) 346 3375, Attention: Mark D. Millard or at such other address as the Company or such Purchasers may designate by ten (10) days advance written notice to the Purchasers, in the case of the Company, or to the Company, in the case of a Purchaser.
5.5
Notices.
                              
 
.  No modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to departure therefrom shall be effective unless in writing and approved by the Company and the Purchasers.
5.6
Modification; Waiver
                              
 
  This Agreement and the Exhibits hereto constitute the full and entire understanding and agreement between the parties with regard to the subjects hereof, and no party shall be liable or bound to any other party in any manner by any representations, warranties, covenants and agreements except as specifically set forth herein.
5.7
Entire Agreement.
                              
  Each party shall pay all costs and expenses that it incurs with respect to the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby.
5.8
Expenses.
                              
the parties have executed this as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
 
List of Accounts of Davis Selected Advisers, L.P.
Schedule 1:
                                  
 
Schedule of Purchasers
Schedule 2:
                                  
 
Form of Indenture
Exhibit A:
                                           
 
Form of Registration Rights Agreement
Exhibit B:
                                             
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
List of Accounts of
Davis Selected Advisers, L.P.
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Schedule of Purchasers
 


