FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20090615091219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01        Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 12, 2009, Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release, which is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information included in this item, including Exhibit 99.1, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.  The furnishing of this information pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed an admission by the Company as to the materiality of the information.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
  
Exhibits.
 
 
Some of the statements made by the Company in, or incorporated by reference in, this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking.  These statements include comments as to future events and trends affecting the Company's business, which are based upon management's current expectations and are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "should," "will" and similar expressions.  The following are important factors that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the Company's forward-looking statements:  general economic conditions; changes in raw material and energy costs; credit availability and pricing; the success of the Company's growth, profitability and global manufacturing strategies and its cost reduction and productivity program; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; tax, interest and foreign exchange rates; and legal proceedings.  A more extensive list and description of these and other such factors can be found under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in the Company's most recent previous Current Report on Form 8-K, Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: June 15, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Friday, June 12, 2009  Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) announced today the pricing of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2017 (the "Notes").  The Company had previously announced a proposed offering of $250 million; however, the offering size was increased to $400 million due to market demand. 
Net proceeds from the sale of the Notes, after investor discounts, underwriting discounts and commissions and the Company's estimated fees and expenses, is expected to be approximately $385.8 mill
ion.  The Company expects the offering to close on June 18, 2009, subject to customary closing conditions
.
 
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, which may include the repurchase, retirement or redemption of a portion of the Company's 3% Convertible Senior Notes due 2033.
 
The Notes will be offered only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.  The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and will not be offered or sold in the United States without an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes.  Any offer to sell the Notes will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum.  The Notes may not be offered or sold in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Company statements in this press release may be forward-looking.These statements include comments as to future events that may affect the Company, which are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans," "should," "will" and similar expressions.  Important factors that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the Company's forward-looking statements include:  general economic conditions; credit availability and pricing; changes in raw material and energy costs; foreign exchange rates; and legal proceedings.  A more extensive list and description of these and other such factors can
 
 
 
be found under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in the Company's most recent Current Report on Form 8-K, Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


