FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20111227170825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Information.
On December 27, 2011, Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company"), closed its previously announced underwritten secondary public offering of its common stock (the "Offering"), pursuant to which CD&R Friends & Family Fund VIII, L.P. and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund VIII, L.P. sold an aggregate of 14,033,793 shares of the Company's common stock. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the Offering.
On December 27, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of the Offering. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Tuesday, December 27, 2011Sealed Air Corporation ("Sealed Air") (NYSE: SEE) today announced the closing of the previously announced underwritten offering of 14,033,793 shares of its common stock by CD&R Friends & Family Fund VIII, L.P. and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund VIII, L.P. All 14,033,793 of the offered shares were sold in the offering. The Company did not sell any shares in the offering and did not receive any proceeds from the offering.
A registration statement relating to the shares is effective with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A prospectus supplement relating to the offering has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus may be obtained from Barclays Capital Inc., c/o Broadridge Financial Solutions, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, Email: Barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com, (888) 603-5847.
Barclays Capital acted as sole underwriter for the offering.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities nor has there been any sale of these securities in any state or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction. The offering of these securities has been made only by means of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus.
Business
Sealed Air is the new global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations. On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $7.6 billion in 2010. Sealed Air has approximately 26,000 employees who serve customers in 175 countries.
Forward-Looking Statements
Company statements in this press release may be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 concerning our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These statements include comments as to future events that may affect the Company, which are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plan," "could," "estimate," "will" and similar expressions. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including: economic conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in raw material costs; currency translation effects; and legal proceedings. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be revised and updated from time to time by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website. Sealed Air does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which any such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


