FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20110727081847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 27, 2011, Sealed Air Corporation ("we" or "our") issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. We have attached the press release as Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information included in this item, including Exhibit 99.1, is hereby furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
     ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Wednesday, July 27, 2011  For the second quarter 2011, Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) reported diluted net earnings per common share (EPS) of $0.37, including certain acquisition expenses related to the pending Diversey Holdings Inc. ("Diversey") acquisition, compared with $0.38 in 2010. Adjusted EPS was $0.40, compared with $0.35 in 2010. (See attached supplements for non-U.S. GAAP reconciliations and information.)
     Net sales increased 11% to $1.21 billion, while gross profit increased 8% to $324 million, or 26.7% of net sales, compared with 27.6% in 2010. Operating profit was steady at $129 million, or 10.6% of net sales, compared with 11.9% in 2010. Excluding the costs related to the proposed acquisition of Diversey, adjusted operating profit was $136 million, or 11.2% of net sales, compared with 11.9% in 2010.
     Commenting on the quarter and our operating performance, William V. Hickey, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated:
     "We are excited about the pending Diversey acquisition. This transaction brings together two industry-leading organizations with a shared vision that leverages a strong heritage of innovating new market spaces and developing unique, proprietary solutions that generate measurable value for customers. We believe the acquisition complements our current R&D investments in food safety and hygiene and broadens growth initiatives focused on providing end-to-end service-based solutions for the food processing and food service industries. Additionally, the acquisition expands our reach in developing regions, a key growth area for Sealed Air.
     In the quarter, our businesses continued to execute on their growth programs and generated solid sales results excluding foreign exchange on a constant dollar basis. Amidst uneven economic performance, our North American region generated 5% constant dollar sales growth, while our European region increased constant dollar sales by 9%. Equipment sales for new applications were also a large contributor of growth this quarter reflecting good customer
1
 
reception to our Food Solutions and Protective Packaging growth programs. Our sales growth rate was partially muted by ongoing weakness in Brazil and Australia, where currency appreciation limited export trade. This resulted in reduced animal production rates, which impacted our Food Packaging business.
     Our successful implementation of recent pricing actions primarily in North America and Europe generated 3% price/mix in the quarter, and we expect to recognize additional pricing benefits in the third quarter. The combined benefits of price/mix, operating leverage from increased volumes, and further cost reduction through productivity benefits largely offset higher petrochemical-based raw material and freight costs in the quarter. These input costs peaked and then subsided modestly in the quarter, largely in line with our expectations. As a result of our diversified approach to managing input cost inflation, our adjusted operating margin remained resilient on a year-over-year and sequential basis.
     We continue to expect improved operational and margin performance in the second half of the year as further benefits from our prior pricing actions are anticipated to yield price/cost parity in the third quarter for that period. We expect to generate incremental value through the fourth quarter from the combined benefits of steady volume growth from our expanding base of customers and solutions, ongoing supply chain productivity enhancements, and an anticipated modest easing in raw material costs."
Second Quarter Segment Review
      The following year-over-year net sales discussions exclude the impact of currency translation, which we define as "constant dollar," a non-U.S. GAAP measure. The balance of the discussion is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis. See "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," attached, for further details.
Food Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 9%, or 4% on a constant dollar basis, with 3% higher price/mix. Price/mix results primarily reflected a 7% increase in the U.S. from prior pricing actions to recover higher raw material costs, as well as contract price adjustments. Volumes increased 1%, largely driven by a 4% increase in Europe due primarily to higher equipment demand and a 1% increase in North America representing solid U.S. volume growth which was partially offset by lower volumes in Canada. Due to the currency issues described above, weakness in the Brazilian and Australian meat industries also reduced consolidated volume growth rates. Operating profit increased 8% to $62 million, or 12.4% of net sales, compared with 12.5% in 2010.
Food Solutions Segment
     Sales increased 15%, or 7% on a constant dollar basis, with 4% higher price/mix largely in North America and Europe, reflecting the benefits of prior pricing actions and favorable formula price adjustments on certain products. Volumes increased 3%, primarily from a 10% increase in Europe. This growth was partially offset by a 7% decline in North America resulting from a change in our case ready format by a major retailer in mid-2010, which was previously discussed in the first quarter. Operating profit increased 9% to $25 million, or 9.6% of net sales, compared with 10.1% in 2010.
Protective Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 10%, or 5% on a constant dollar basis, with 4% higher volumes, led by increased demand in North America and Asia-Pacific primarily due to expanded customer relationships and higher demand for our new solutions. Price/mix increased 1% reflecting the
2
 
benefits of prior pricing actions across most regions. These benefits were slightly offset by an unfavorable mix effect from new, high-performance film solutions that leverage our proprietary processing technologies, but have a lower selling price due to the significantly lower raw material content in the product. Operating profit increased 2% to $46 million, or 13.1% of net sales, compared with 14.1% in 2010.
Other Category
     Sales increased 17%, or 10% on a constant dollar basis, with 9% higher volumes, led by increased demand in Europe and Asia-Pacific for both Specialty Materials and Medical Applications solutions. Price/mix was higher by 1%, primarily reflecting prior pricing actions in North America in our Specialty Materials business. Operating profit was $2 million compared with $3 million due to spending on a recently acquired technology-based venture.
Diversey Acquisition Announcement
     On June 1, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Diversey Holdings, Inc., a leading solutions provider to the global cleaning and sanitization market, in a transaction valued at approximately $4.3 billion.
     The proposed acquisition has been granted early termination under the U.S. Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and is still subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and certain foreign regulatory approvals, which are in process. We have begun the integration planning process and expect the transaction to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2011.
     We recorded approximately $7 million of acquisition-related costs in the quarter. These expenses include accrued transaction costs relating to advisory, consulting, legal and appraisal fees. We will exclude these fees and expenses and any future integration costs from our adjusted EPS calculations in 2011.
Other Matters
2011 Outlook and Earnings Guidance
     Commenting on our outlook, Mr. Hickey stated:
     "Our business remains well positioned with expanding customer relationships, continued penetration of developing regions, and solid receptivity of our new solutions and processing technologies, which we continue to commercialize as part of our growth programs. While the pace of economic growth has been uneven in the second quarter, we are maintaining our full year 2011 EPS guidance range of $1.75 to $1.85, which does not include the effect of the proposed Diversey acquisition. As noted in the first quarter, we continue to expect to achieve an average constant dollar sales growth rate of 5% to 7%, with approximately half of this growth from favorable price/mix. Combined with additional benefits from our pricing actions, operating leverage, tight control of expenses, productivity improvements from our supply chain initiatives,
3
 
and favorable foreign currency translation through the balance of the year, we believe we are well positioned to generate results within this range."
     Our full year guidance assumptions have been revised for capital expenditures and free cash flow:
     Our full year 2011 guidance assumptions outlined in our fourth quarter 2010 earnings release relating to depreciation and amortization, interest expense, and effective income tax rate have not changed. Our updated full year guidance assumptions, which are noted in our first quarter earnings release, relating to the estimated average annual increase in resin costs and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation also have not changed.
     Our guidance excludes:
Web Site and Conference Call Information
     William V. Hickey, our CEO, and David H. Kelsey, our CFO, will conduct an investor conference call today at 11:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss our earnings results. The conference call will be webcast live on our home page at http://ir.sealedair.com. Listeners should go to the web site prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's web site.
Investor Relations
     Investors who cannot access the webcast may listen to the conference call live via telephone by dialing (888) 713-4218 (domestic) or (617) 213-4870 (international) and use the participant code 56806720. To avoid registration wait times, teleconference participants may pre-register on our home page at http://ir.sealedair.com for a personalized PIN number for access to the conference call. Telephonic replay will be available starting at 2:00 p.m. (ET) on Wednesday, July 27, 2011 and end on Wednesday, August 17, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. (ET). To listen to the replay, please dial (888) 286-8010 (domestic) or (617) 801-6888 (international) and use the confirmation code 97847920.
Investor Relations
4
 
Business
     For over fifty years, Sealed Air has been a leading global innovator and manufacturer of a wide range of packaging and performance-based materials and equipment systems that serve an array of food, industrial, medical, and consumer applications. Operating in 52 countries, Sealed Air's international reach generated revenue of approximately $4.5 billion in 2010. With widely recognized brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Jiffy protective mailers, Instapak foam-in-place systems and Cryovac packaging technology, Sealed Air continues to identify new trends, foster new markets, and deliver innovative solutions to its customers. For more information about Sealed Air, please visit the Company's web site at www.sealedair.com.
Non-U.S. GAAP Information
     In this press release, we have included several non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, adjusted 2011 EPS guidance, net sales on a "constant dollar" basis, adjusted net earnings, free cash flow and EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. We present results and guidance, adjusted to eliminate the effects of specified items that would otherwise be included under U.S. GAAP, to aid in comparisons with other periods or prior guidance. We may use adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, net sales on a constant dollar basis, adjusted net earnings, and EBIT, EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA measures to determine performance-based compensation. Our management uses financial measures excluding the effects of currency translation in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that this information may be useful to investors. For important information on our use of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, see the attached supplementary information entitled "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share," "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Profit and Operating Profit to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Gross Profit and Operating Profit," "Non-U.S. GAAP Free Cash Flow," "Reconciliation of Net Earnings Available to Common Stockholders to Non-U.S. GAAP EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA" and "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," and "Percentage Changes in Net Sales by Geographic Region."
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include projections regarding our 2011 earnings guidance and other projections relating to our financial performance such as those in the "Second Quarter vs. Prior Year Highlights" section where we discuss expected cost recovery from pricing actions and in the "2011 Outlook and Earnings Guidance" section, where we discuss our expectations for 2011, including our expected 2011 EPS performance. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general economic conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; our sales terms; currency translation and devaluation effects; and regulatory and legal matters. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
     In addition, the statements in this press release represent our expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


