FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20111026101532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 26, 2011, Sealed Air Corporation ("we" or "our") issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. We have attached the press release as Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information included in this item, including Exhibit 99.1, is hereby furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 26, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
     ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Wednesday, October 26, 2011  For the third quarter 2011, Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) reported diluted net earnings per common share (EPS) of $0.41, including $0.07 of acquisition items related to the Diversey Holdings, Inc. ("Diversey") acquisition, compared with $0.43 in 2010. Adjusted EPS increased 12% to $0.48, compared with $0.43 in 2010. (See attached supplements for non-U.S. GAAP reconciliations and information.)
     Net sales increased 10% to $1.25 billion, while gross profit was $336 million, or 26.9% of net sales, compared with $321 million, or 28.4% in 2010. Operating profit was $130 million, or 10.4% of net sales, which includes $24 million of acquisition- and integration-related expenses and lower variable incentive compensation expenses. This compares with $147 million, or 13.0%, in 2010. Excluding the acquisition- and integration-related expenses, adjusted operating profit was $154 million, or 12.3% of net sales, compared with 13.1% in 2010. Adjusted EBITDA was $196 million, compared with $192 million in 2010.
     Commenting on the quarter and our operating performance, William V. Hickey, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated:
     "Our third quarter results demonstrate our balanced approach in managing our core business in an unsteady economic environment by remaining focused on our strategic growth programs, developing region expansion, margin performance and cash flow, while successfully completing the final stages of our Diversey acquisition and progressing with our integration planning. We achieved a constant dollar sales growth rate of over 3% in all regions with most reporting a pick-up in customer demand in September. Although this average rate of growth is slower than in the first half of the year, we are pleased with our ability to strategically manage volume and price for long-term sustainable growth.
 
     Our teams did a solid job recovering raw material costs through our prior pricing actions, which brought us within approximately $3 million of price/cost parity with resin costs for the third quarter. As a result, adjusted operating profit margins increased sequentially and I am pleased that we were able to hold them relatively steady on a year-over-year basis. We achieved this result as volume growth slowed and raw material costs declined sequentially, late in the quarter.
     On October 3, we successfully completed the acquisition of Diversey, which positions Sealed Air as the new leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. The integration process remains on track, and we have identified incremental cost synergies in areas such as logistics and procurement. We expect these synergies will drive enhanced benefits in 2012 and beyond."
rd
Third Quarter Segment Review
     The following year-over-year net sales discussions exclude the impact of currency translation, which we define as "constant dollar," a non-U.S. GAAP measure. The balance of the discussion is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis. See "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," attached, for further details.
Food Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 10%, or 4% on a constant dollar basis, from 4% higher price/mix. Price/mix results primarily reflect a 6% increase in the U.S. from prior pricing actions to recover higher raw material costs, as well as contract price adjustments. Global volumes remained steady versus the prior year as a 3% increase in Europe and a 4% increase in Asia-Pacific were primarily offset by lower volumes in Canada, continuing from the second quarter. Operating profit increased 7% to $75 million, or 14.2% of net sales, compared with 14.5% in 2010.
Food Solutions Segment
     Sales increased 11%, or 3% on a constant dollar basis, with 4% higher price/mix driven primarily by a 6% increase in North America and a 3% increase in Europe. These increases reflect the benefits of prior pricing actions and favorable formula price adjustments on certain products. Volumes decreased 1%, as a 6% decline in the U.S. due to a previously noted change in our case ready format by a major retailer in mid-to-late 2010 was only partially offset by a 2% increase in volumes in our international regions. Operating profit increased 7% to $29 million, or 11.1% of net sales, compared with 11.4% in 2010.
Protective Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 11%, or 5% on a constant dollar basis, with 3% higher volumes led by a 3% increase in North America and a 13% increase in Asia. Price/mix increased 3% reflecting the benefits of prior pricing actions across most regions and favorable mix within our product portfolio. Operating profit increased 4% to $49 million, or 13.4% of net sales, compared with 14.3% in 2010.
Other Category
     Sales increased 14%, or 7% on a constant dollar basis, with 6% higher volumes. This increase largely reflected a favorable year-over-year comparison in our Medical Applications business in Asia. Comparable period 2010 sales were limited ahead of a formulation license approval late in the third quarter of 2010. Price/mix was higher by 1%, primarily reflecting prior pricing actions in North America and Europe in our Specialty Materials business. Operating profit was $0.5 million compared with $2.7 million due to higher raw material and freight costs.
 
2011 Outlook
     Commenting on our outlook, Mr. Hickey stated:
     "For the fourth quarter, we expect continued year-over-year growth in our food and protective segments although at a slower pace than previously anticipated. We also expect our Diversey segment to show modest constant dollar sales improvement compared with the prior year. We continue to anticipate ongoing benefits from our prior pricing actions that will further improve profit margins in the quarter as raw material prices are expected to decline sequentially. Through careful management of expenses and ongoing productivity and working capital improvements, we expect solid free cash flow generation through year end, further reinforcing our ample liquidity position. We remain committed to rapidly reducing debt levels and expect to allocate substantially all remaining free cash flow to prepay our debt while maintaining our dividend, which will improve our earnings performance over time. When we achieve a net debt level below our target of $4.5 billion, we anticipate returning a portion of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of a higher dividend or through share repurchases.
     Looking further ahead, we expect to benefit from expanded solutions offerings, similar to our recently introduced VSS Vision Safety Solutions, the first joint offering from the combined company, and from Diversey's alliance with GE Water and Process Technologies, which enables Diversey to offer its global food and beverage customers GE's leading portfolio of water management solutions. Additionally, our expanded R&D organization has already generated over 10 development concepts, which apply proprietary technologies across the product portfolios to further enhance performance and differentiation in our core markets. As some of these concepts require limited development time, they may be introduced as early as the first half of 2012."
     Mr. Hickey continued, "We are fully engaged in the integration of Diversey and, starting in the fourth quarter, will execute our plan to achieve a minimum annual run-rate of $50 million of cost synergies by 2013, with $30 million expected by the end of 2012. These synergies are expected to be primarily in SG&A, and we anticipate recording charges in the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing through the first quarter of 2012. We will exclude these charges when reporting our adjusted EBITDA and earnings per share results."
Full Year 2011 Earnings Guidance (excludes Diversey) and Fourth Quarter Discussion
     We have updated our 2011 full year EPS guidance range to reflect the slowing pace of economic growth seen mid-third quarter and expected through year end. Our 2011 EPS guidance range is now expected to be in the range of $1.70 to $1.75, which compares with our previous guidance range of $1.75 to $1.85.
     Our full year EPS guidance excludes:
 
     As we are still in the process of completing our evaluation of the purchase accounting adjustments resulting from the acquisition method of accounting for the Diversey acquisition, we have provided the following fourth quarter information to aid in the evaluation of the combined company's operational results for full year 2011. This information includes the expected performance of the Diversey reportable segment for the fourth quarter and is preliminary and subject to change.
Updated Pro Forma Items and 2012 Guidance
     We expect to file a Form 8-K in mid-December 2011, which will provide historical financial information of Sealed Air and Diversey for full year 2010 and the nine months ended September 30, 2011 after giving effect to the acquisition by Sealed Air. This financial information will use the acquisition method of accounting and will apply pro forma assumptions and adjustments.
     Additionally, we expect to provide full year 2012 guidance in our fourth quarter 2011 earnings release and will emphasize Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow guidance ranges. At that time, we also expect to identify non-cash EPS components to aid in the assessment of our operating performance and in any peer comparisons.
Web Site and Conference Call Information
     William V. Hickey, our CEO, and Tod S. Christie, our Treasurer and Interim CFO, will conduct an investor conference call today at 11:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss our earnings results. The conference call will be webcast live on our home page at . Listeners should go to the web site prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's web site.
Investor Relations
http://ir.sealedair.com
     Investors who cannot access the webcast may listen to the conference call live via telephone by dialing (888) 680-0890 (domestic) or (617) 213-4857 (international) and use the participant code 89604864. To avoid registration wait times, teleconference participants may pre-register on our home page at for a personalized PIN number for access to the conference call. Telephonic replay will be available starting at 2:00 p.m. (ET) on Wednesday, October 26, 2011 and end on Wednesday, November 16, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. (ET). To listen to the replay, please dial (888) 286-8010 (domestic) or (617) 801-6888 (international) and use the confirmation code 37139068.
Investor Relations
http://ir.sealedair.com
Business
     Sealed Air is the new global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey brand cleaning and hygiene
 
solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations. On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $7.6 billion in 2010 and has approximately 26,000 employees who serve customers in 175 countries. To learn more, visit .
www.sealedair.com
Non-U.S. GAAP Information
     In this press release and supplement, we have included several non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, adjusted 2011 EPS guidance, net sales on a "constant dollar" basis, adjusted net earnings, free cash flow and EBIT, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Credit Agreement EBITDA (as defined in Diversey's public filings). We present results and guidance, adjusted to eliminate the effects of specified items that would otherwise be included under U.S. GAAP, to aid in comparisons with other periods or prior guidance. We may use adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, net sales on a constant dollar basis, adjusted net earnings, and EBIT, EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA measures to determine performance-based compensation. Our management uses financial measures excluding the effects of currency translation in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that this information may be useful to investors. For important information on our use of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, see the attached supplementary information entitled "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share," "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Profit and Operating Profit to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Gross Profit and Operating Profit," "Non-U.S. GAAP Free Cash Flow," "Reconciliation of Net Earnings Available to Common Stockholders to Non-U.S. GAAP EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA" and "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," and "Percentage Changes in Net Sales by Geographic Region."
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release and supplement contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include projections regarding our 2011 earnings guidance and other projections relating to our financial performance such as those in the "2011 Outlook and Earnings Guidance" section, where we discuss our expectations for 2011, including our expected 2011 EPS performance. These statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general economic conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; our sales terms; currency translation and devaluation effects; and regulatory and legal matters. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
     In addition, the statements in this press release and supplement represent our expectations and beliefs as of this date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The following information regarding Diversey's results of operations and financial position is preliminary and unaudited and provided solely for informational purposes. It is based on Diversey's accounting records and has been prepared in accordance with Diversey's accounting policies and procedures. We cannot assure you that this information will not change. In addition, please note that the information set forth below may differ significantly from the information set forth in the pro forma financial statements referenced in our third quarter earnings release above. Any such differences may be unfavorable.
Third Quarter 2011
     Third quarter 2011 Diversey Holdings, Inc. ("Diversey") net sales increased 5% on a reported basis to $825 million, compared with $784 million. On a constant dollar basis, sales declined approximately 1%, as 3% lower volumes were partially offset by 2% favorable price/mix.
     Lower volumes reflect the impact of the natural disasters in Japan, which reduced customer demand, as well as the exit from a non-strategic toll manufacturing business and slow economic recovery in Europe, which has primarily impacted Diversey's institutional and lodging end markets. Diversey achieved higher pricing in most regions, led by the Americas and the APAT (Asia-Pacific, Africa and Turkey) regions. These benefits reflect prior pricing actions taken to recover rising raw material costs.
     Constant dollar sales performance reflected ongoing customer and application expansion, including an increased presence in the developing APAT region, where Diversey generated constant dollar sales growth of 8% in the quarter. Additionally, ongoing development of new channel partners and the implementation of Diversey's accelerated growth plans in the Americas yielded favorable constant dollar sales growth in the quarter.
     Third quarter EBITDA was $97 million, or 11.8% of net sales, compared with $117 million, or 14.9% in 2010 due to lower volumes reflecting the factors mentioned above, as well as the timing to realize pricing benefits to recover rising raw material costs. Credit Agreement EBITDA, which excludes transaction-related expenses and other items, was $107 million, or 13.0% of net sales, compared with $130 million, or 16.6% of net sales in 2010. The decline in Credit Agreement EBITDA primarily reflects the factors noted above. Third quarter capital expenditures were approximately $30 million.
 
Fourth Quarter 2011
     Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect that the Diversey segment will deliver positive sales performance versus the prior year, primarily due to increasing benefits from pricing actions. As a result, profit margins are expected to improve sequentially, assuming that raw material costs will continue to moderate in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA (which aligns with Sealed Air's Adjusted EBITDA definition) is expected to be in the range of $110 million to $120 million and capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $20 to $25 million.


