FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20110427095659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
          On April 27, 2011, Sealed Air Corporation ("we" or "our") issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. We have attached the press release as Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
          The information included in this item, including Exhibit 99.1, is hereby furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
     ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Wednesday, April 27, 2011  For the first quarter 2011, Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) reported diluted net earnings per common share (EPS) of $0.34, compared with $0.35 in 2010, or a 2010 adjusted EPS of $0.36. (See attached supplements for non-U.S. GAAP reconciliations and information.) First quarter EPS results were impacted by an unfavorable spread between selling prices and raw material and other energy-based costs in the quarter. Additionally, EPS was impacted by an unfavorable year-over-year comparison in Other (expense) income due to foreign exchange losses and gains.
     Sales increased 6% to $1.13 billion, while gross profit increased 3% to $309 million, or 27.4% of net sales, compared with 28.3% in 2010. Operating profit declined 1% to $123 million, or 10.9% of net sales, compared with 11.7% in 2010, or a 2010 adjusted operating profit of 11.9%.
     Commenting on our operating performance, William V. Hickey, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated:
     "Our volume growth reflected continuing recovery in most of our end markets, expanded customer relationships and solid receptivity to our growing portfolio of solutions. We realized 2% in price/mix and expect to recognize additional benefits from a number of new pricing actions taken to offset the approximate $40 million of higher petrochemical-based raw materials and freight costs that occurred in the quarter. These increases were due, in part, to sudden unrest in the Middle East and global commodity price escalation. By the third quarter, we anticipate that our additional pricing actions will yield price/cost parity for that period.
     Although resin costs are approaching 2008 peak levels, we are confident in our ability to achieve our 2011 earnings guidance. This will be achieved by our timely pricing actions, favorable foreign currency translation, tight control of expenses, and benefits from new solutions that leverage differentiated formulations and patented process technologies. We also continue to realize sustained benefits of our completed Global Manufacturing Strategy and a lower cost structure associated with our productivity initiatives."
 
First Quarter Segment Review
     The following year-over-year net sales discussions exclude the impact of currency translation, which we define as "constant dollar," a non-U.S. GAAP measure. The balance of the discussion is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis. See "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," attached, for further details.
Food Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 6%, or 4% on a constant dollar basis, with 2% higher price/mix primarily from the benefits of prior North American pricing actions, as well as contract price adjustments in that region. Volumes increased 2%, largely driven by a 4% increase in North America representing new customer relationships and a 5% increase in Europe due to increased demand for our solutions. Operating profit increased 11% to $63 million, or 13.2% of net sales.
Food Solutions Segment
     Sales increased 4%, or 3% on a constant dollar basis, with 3% higher price/mix largely in North America and Europe, reflecting the benefits of prior pricing actions and favorable formula price adjustments on certain products. Volume performance was relatively steady overall. Volumes in international regions grew 4%, but were offset by a 6% decline in the U.S., resulting from a change in our case ready format by a major retailer in mid-2010. A portion of this volume is now included in another format in Food Packaging. Operating profit decreased 7% to $19 million, or 8.5% of net sales, primarily due to approximately $2 million in severance charges as we align our resources to support our new growth programs. Excluding these charges, operating profit would have been relatively steady compared with the prior year.
Protective Packaging Segment
     Sales increased 9%, or 8% on a constant dollar basis, with 7% higher volumes, led by increased demand in North America and Europe primarily due to improving industrial production rates in those regions. Price/mix was 1% higher, reflecting the benefits of prior pricing actions across most regions. Operating profit was relatively steady at $40 million, or 11.9% of net sales, compared with 12.9% in 2010.
Other Category
     Sales increased 1%, or 2% on a constant dollar basis, with 1% higher volumes. The lower unit volume growth rate primarily reflects a challenging year-over-year comparison in our Medical Applications business due to extensive pre-buying among Chinese customers in the first quarter of 2010 ahead of a reformulation of our product line awaiting licensing approval. The new license was approved in the third quarter of 2010. Price/mix was higher by 1%, primarily in our Specialty Materials business. Operating profit decreased 86% to $1 million, or 1.1% of net sales, due to lower unit volumes in our Medical Applications business and ongoing investments in new technology based ventures.
Other Matters
     Other expense was $4 million in the quarter as compared to income of $2 million in the first quarter of 2010. This $6 million variance was primarily due to net foreign currency exchange losses of approximately $4 million related to translating our non-U.S. dollar inter-company receivable and payable balances in the quarter, compared with gains of $3 million from the re-measurement of an inter-company loan in 2010.
 
2011 Outlook and Earnings Guidance
     Commenting on our outlook, Mr. Hickey stated:
     "We are revising the upper end of our full year 2011 EPS guidance range, which is now $1.75 to $1.85. This new guidance reflects higher energy-based costs and timing of cost recovery. This compares to our initial guidance of $1.75 to $1.90. We view our first quarter as a stepping stone' from which we anticipate margin and earnings expansion in the second half of the year. We continue to expect solid sales growth and ongoing productivity improvements, as we progress toward our 15% operating margin goal by 2013.
     In 2011, we continue to expect to achieve an average constant dollar sales growth rate in the 5% to 7% range. A higher proportion of the sales growth is likely to come from price/mix, as we implement incremental pricing actions to offset higher than expected resin costs. We also remain focused on our growth programs, extending our brand globally and into new applications, as well as capturing the many opportunities ahead of us as our end markets continue to recover."
     Our updated assumptions for full year 2011 guidance as compared to our initial assumptions are as follows:
     Other full year 2011 guidance assumptions outlined in the fourth quarter earnings release relating to depreciation and amortization, effective income tax rate, and free cash flow have not changed. Our guidance continues to exclude the payment of the W. R. Grace settlement, as the timing of the settlement is unknown. Final payment of the W. R. Grace settlement is expected to be accretive to EPS by approximately $0.12 to $0.14 annually following the payment date under the assumption of using a substantial portion of cash on hand for the payment and ceasing to accrue interest on the settlement amount. Additionally, our guidance excludes any non-operating gains or losses that may be recognized in 2011 due to currency fluctuations in Venezuela.
Web Site and Conference Call Information
     William V. Hickey, our CEO, and David H. Kelsey, our CFO, will conduct an investor conference call today at 11:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss our earnings results. The conference call will be webcast live on our home page at http://ir.sealedair.com. Listeners should go to the web site prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's web site.
Investor Relations
     Investors who cannot access the webcast may listen to the conference call live via telephone by dialing (888) 713-4209 (domestic) or (617) 213-4863 (international) and use the participant code 98570524. To avoid registration wait times, teleconference participants may pre-register on the home page at http://ir.sealedair.com for a personalized PIN number for access to the conference call. Telephonic replay will be available starting at 2:00 p.m. (ET) on Wednesday, April 27, 2011 and end on Wednesday, May 18, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. (ET). To listen to the replay, please dial (888) 286-8010 (domestic) or (617) 801-6888 (international) and use the confirmation code 74335269.
Investor Relations
 
Business
     For over fifty years, Sealed Air has been a leading global innovator and manufacturer of a wide range of packaging and performance-based materials and equipment systems that now serve an array of food, industrial, medical, and consumer applications. Operating in 52 countries, Sealed Air's international reach generated revenue of approximately $4.5 billion in 2010. With widely recognized brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Jiffy protective mailers, Instapak foam-in-place systems and Cryovac packaging technology, Sealed Air continues to identify new trends, foster new markets, and deliver innovative solutions to its customers. For more information about Sealed Air, please visit the Company's web site at www.sealedair.com.
Non-U.S. GAAP Information
     In this press release, we have included several non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, adjusted 2011 EPS guidance, net sales on a "constant dollar" basis, adjusted net earnings, free cash flow and EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. We present results and guidance, adjusted to eliminate the effects of specified items that would otherwise be included under U.S. GAAP, to aid in comparisons with other periods or prior guidance. We may use adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, net sales on a constant dollar basis, adjusted net earnings, and EBIT, EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA measures to determine performance-based compensation. Our management uses financial measures excluding the effects of currency translation in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that this information may be useful to investors. For important information on our use of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, see the attached supplementary information entitled "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share," "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Profit and Operating Profit to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Gross Profit and Operating Profit," "Non-U.S. GAAP Free Cash Flow," "Reconciliation of Net Earnings Available to Common Stockholders to Non-U.S. GAAP EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA" and "Components of Change in Net Sales  Business Segments and Other," and "Percentage Changes in Net Sales by Geographic Region."
Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "will" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include projections regarding our 2011 earnings guidance and other projections relating to our financial performance such as those in the "First Quarter vs. Prior Year Highlights" section where we discuss expected cost recovery from pricing actions and in the "2011 Outlook and Earnings Guidance" section, where we discuss our expectations for 2011, including our expected 2011 EPS performance. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general economic conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; our sales terms; currency translation and devaluation effects; and regulatory and legal matters. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our Forms 8-K.
 
In addition, the statements in this press release represent our expectations and beliefs as of the date of this press release. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, it specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


