FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20121115132133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
On November 15, 2012, Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") entered into a restatement agreement (the "Restatement Agreement") whereby its senior secured credit facility was amended and restated (the "Amended and Restated Credit Agreement") with the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as agent, and the other agents party thereto. The changes provide that (i) the term loan B facilities were refinanced with a $609.5 million term loan B dollar tranche and a 150 million term loan B euro tranche and in connection therewith the interest margin on the dollar tranche was decreased by 0.75% and the interest margin on the euro tranche was decreased by 1.0%, (ii) the Japanese term loan A facility will be refinanced on substantially the same terms, in the smaller principal amount of 6.4 billion, (iii) the financial maintenance covenant of Consolidated Net Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facilities) was adjusted to provide additional flexibility for the Company and (iv) other amendments were implemented.
Completion of the Sale of Diversey Japan
On November 14, 2012, the Company announced that it had completed the previously announced sale of Diversey G.K. ("Diversey Japan") (an indirect subsidiary of Diversey, Inc.) to an investment vehicle of The Carlyle Group ("Carlyle") for gross proceeds of 30 billion (USD equivalent of approximately 373 million). Additionally, the Company used the approximately $300 million in net after-tax cash proceeds generated from the sale to prepay a portion of its term loans currently outstanding under its senior secured credit facilities. As of September 30, 2012, Diversey Japan was classified as a discontinued operation. Additional detail about the accounting impact of the transaction is disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012 and in its third quarter 2012 earnings release. A copy of the press release related to the sale of Diversey Japan is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the information furnished herein contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include 2012 financial expectations and assumptions associated with our 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program, availability and pricing of raw materials, success of our growth programs, economic conditions, and the success of pricing actions. These statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general domestic and international economic and political conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; credit ratings; competitive conditions and contract terms; currency translation and devaluation effects, including Venezuela; the success of our financial growth, profitability and manufacturing strategies and our cost reduction and productivity efforts; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; pandemics; environmental matters; regulatory actions and legal matters; and the successful integration of Diversey. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Wednesday, November 14, 2012Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) announced today that it has completed the previously announced sale of Diversey G.K. ("Diversey Japan") (an indirect subsidiary of Diversey, Inc.) to an investment vehicle of The Carlyle Group ("Carlyle") for gross proceeds of 30 billion (USD equivalent of approximately 373 million). Additionally, the Company intends to use the approximately $300 million in net after-tax cash proceeds generated from the sale to prepay a portion of its term loans currently outstanding under its senior secured credit facilities.
As of September 30, 2012, Diversey Japan was classified as a discontinued operation. Additional detail about the accounting impact of the transaction is disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012 and in its third quarter 2012 earnings release.
Business
Sealed Air is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey
TM
brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations. On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $8.1 billion in 2011, and has approximately 26,300 employees who serve customers in 175 countries. To learn more, visit www.sealedair.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Company statements in this press release may be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 concerning our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These statements include comments as to future events that may affect the Company, which are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plan," "could," "estimate," "will" and similar expressions. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be revised and updated from time to time by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at www.sec.gov or our Investor Relations home page at http://ir.sealedair.com.
Contact
Investor Relations:
Amanda Butler, 201-703-4210
Media:
Ken Aurichio, 201-703-4164
 


