FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20121102081006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 30, 2012 Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement (the "EIPA") with DC Co., Ltd., an indirect subsidiary of The Carlyle Group organized under the laws of Japan ("Carlyle"), and Sealed Air Netherlands Holdings V B.V., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company organized under the laws of The Netherlands ("SABV"), for the sale of 100 percent of the equity interests in Diversey G.K., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company organized under the laws of Japan (the "Equity Interests"). Pursuant to the terms of the EIPA, the Company will receive approximately 30 billion (approximately $377 million) for the Equity Interests.
Pursuant to the EIPA, the Company has agreed to cause SABV, as the direct owner of the Equity Interests, to sell the Equity Interests to DC Co., Ltd. subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein (the "Sale"). We anticipate the closing will occur (following satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set out in the EIPA) in November 2012 (the "Closing Date").
The EIPA includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the respective parties, including, among others the absence of any law or order prohibiting the closing. The Company has agreed to various covenants and agreements, including, among other things, to conduct the business of Diversey G.K. in the ordinary course between the date of the EIPA and the Closing Date and to refrain from taking various non-ordinary course actions during that period. The EIPA may be terminated by either of the Company or Carlyle under specified circumstances, including if the transaction is not consummated by December 31, 2012. The EIPA contains certain termination rights for the Company, and further provides that, upon the termination of the EIPA by Carlyle under specified circumstances, Carlyle will be required to pay the Company a cash termination fee of approximately 1 billion (approximately $12 million).
The foregoing description of the EIPA is included to provide you with information regarding its terms. It does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the EIPA, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the EIPA were made only for purposes of that agreement and as of specific dates, were made solely for the benefit of the parties to the EIPA, may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the parties, are not intended to provide factual, business, or financial information about the parties and may be subject to a contractual standard of materiality different from those generally applicable to stockholders or may have been used for purposes of allocating risk between the Company and its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Carlyle, on the other hand, rather than establishing matters of fact. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations, warranties and covenants may change after the date of the EIPA, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Company's public disclosures.
The Sale includes the transfer and license to Diversey G.K. of intellectual property rights owned by the Company (or certain subsidiaries of the Company), on the terms and subject to the conditions of an intellectual property agreement to be executed on the Closing Date.
In connection with the Sale, the Company and other companies controlled by the Company (the "Group") will provide post-closing transitional support to Diversey G.K. in respect of information services pursuant to a transitional services agreement. The Group will also supply certain products and equipment to Diversey G.K. after closing, in some cases on preferential terms, including pursuant to a supply agreement and a TASKI distribution agreement.
The Group and Diversey G.K. will enter into a co-operation agreement in respect of servicing each other's customers after closing. Pursuant to this, Diversey G.K. will service customers of the Group in Japan, and the Group will service customers of Diversey G.K. outside of Japan.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. We have attached the press release as Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
The information included in this item, including Exhibit 99.1, is hereby furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 2, 2012
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This EQUITY INTEREST PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated as of October 30, 2012, is made and entered into by and between DC Co., Ltd., a Japanese corporation (the ""), on the one hand, and Sealed Air Corporation, a U.S. corporation (""), and Sealed Air Netherlands Holdings V B.V., a Netherlands corporation ("") (collectively, the ""), on the other hand (the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser collectively being the "").
Purchaser
SA
SABV
Sealed Air Parties
Parties
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, SA indirectly owns one hundred percent (100%) of the issued shares of DI and SABV, respectively. As of the date hereof, SABV owns all of the equity interest in Diversey G.K., a Japanese corporation (the ""), which constitute all the equity interests of the Company as of the date hereof (all issued and outstanding equity interests of the Company, the "").
Company
Equity Interests
WHEREAS, prior to the Closing and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Sealed Air Parties plan to cause the Company to (i) transfer all 9,840 shares of common stock in Sealed Air Japan Ltd., a Japanese corporation (""), which constitute all the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of SAJ as of the date hereof (all issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of SAJ, "") to Sealed Air Japan Holdings G.K., a Japanese Corporation (""), and (ii) be, and cause SABV to provide equity to the Company to enable the Company to be, debt-free at the Closing by repaying all outstanding loans, terminating any and all Guarantees made by the Company, and paying all costs associated with the Pre-signing Transactions, the Pre-closing Transactions or the Transaction that need to be paid by the Company prior to the Closing;
SAJ
SAJ Shares
SAJH
WHEREAS, prior to the Closing and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Sealed Air Parties plan to cause the Company to pay dividends to the extent necessary so that it is cash-free (except for a small amount of cash in connection with payments to be made on the Closing Date as prescribed in this Agreement) at the Closing;
WHEREAS, the Sealed Air Parties desire to (i) cause SABV to sell and transfer to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser desires to purchase from SABV, all of the Equity Interests after the Company has (x) disposed of SAJ and (y) repaid all the outstanding loans of the Company (including amounts owing pursuant to its term loan agreement with Citibank) and terminated any and all the Guarantees made by the Company, (ii) cause DI and DI's wholly owned subsidiary Diversey IP International B.V. ("") to transfer to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser desires to purchase from DI and DIPI, certain IP owned by DI and/or DIPI on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement;
DIPI
WHEREAS, the Purchaser acknowledges that part of the Purchase Price (including the amount stated in section 2.2(d) in respect of the prepayment of certain royalties) is received by the Sealed Air Parties on behalf of DI and DIPI.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized and other terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means the total cash in the Company Bank Accounts as at the close of the banking day on the Closing Date less the amount of the inter-company loan to be extended from the Purchaser to the Company on the Closing Date, if any.
Actual Cash
"" means each Person providing legal, Tax, accounting, financial, environmental or other professional advice to the Person specified or any of its Affiliates.
Advisors
"" means any Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with any other Person.
Affiliate
"" means an affiliated company as defined in Article 8, paragraph 5 of the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Accounts (Ordinance of the Ministry of Finance No. 59 of 1963, as amended) of Japan.
Affiliated Company
"" means this Equity Interest Purchase Agreement, including the exhibits, schedules, and appendices attached hereto, as the same may be amended by written agreement between the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, collectively, TSA, Co-operation Agreement, Supply Agreement, IPA and TASKI Distribution Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements
"" means Laws relating to anti-bribery or anticorruption (governmental or commercial), which apply to the Business and the Seller Group, including Laws that prohibit the corrupt payment, offer, promise, or authorization of the payment or transfer of anything of value (including gifts or entertainment), directly or indirectly, to any foreign government official, foreign government employee or commercial entity to obtain a business advantage, such as, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended from time to time (the ""), the UK Bribery Act of 2010 ("") and all national and international Laws enacted to implement the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions.
Anticorruption Laws
FCPA
UK Bribery Act
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.12, including without limitation the properties and assets to be transferred to the Company or the Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement or IPA.
Assets
"" means the business and operations of the Company.
Business
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.25.
Business Licenses
"" means actual or potential suits, actions, litigation, arbitration, or Governmental Authority's investigation or other court or administrative proceedings.
Claims
"" has the meaning assigned in section 2.3.
Closing
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.16.
Closing Bonuses
 
"" has the meaning assigned in section 2.3.
Closing Date
"" means the Co-operation Agreement to be executed between SA, DI, the Purchaser and the Company, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 1.1-(1).
Co-operation Agreement
"" means the Japanese Companies Act (Act No. 86 of July 26, 2005, as amended).
Companies Act
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble, which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes both the stock company () before the Entity Conversion and the limited liability company () after the Entity Conversion.
Company
kabushiki kaisha
godo kaisha
"" means the following bank accounts of the Company:
Company Bank Accounts
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 0156918/806
Account No.
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 135626
Account No.
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 549364
Account No.
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 2064494
Account No.
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 244484
Account No.
 
: Savings ()
Account type
Futsuu Yokin
: 1195061
Account No.
 
: Savings ()
Account type
Futsuu Yokin
: 3964907
Account No.
 
: Checking ()
Account type
Touza Yokin
: 6959
Account No.
"" means IP owned by a third party and used by the Company pursuant to a Contract to which the Company is a party.
Company Direct Licensed IP
"" means all (i) Company Owned IP and (ii) Transferred IP.
Company IP
"" means all IP owned by the Company.
Company Owned IP
"" means the Company, any Subsidiaries of the Company, or any Officer, agent, employee, representative, consultant, or any other Person acting for or on behalf of the foregoing (individually and collectively).
Company Representative
"" means shares of capital stock of any class or equity interest.
Company Shares
"" means material IP owned by a third party and used by the Company pursuant to a Contract to which DI or one of its Affiliates (other than the Company) is a party.
Company Used IP
"" has the meaning assigned in section 12.8.
Confidential Information
"" means any contracts, promises, arrangements, agreements and other commitments, in each case, whether written or oral.
Contract
"" of a Person means the power, whether direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person whether by Contract or otherwise, and in any event and without limitation of the foregoing, any Person owning more than 50% of the voting securities or rights of another Person shall be deemed to Control such other Person.
Control
"" means the IntraLinks virtual data room containing electronic copies of documents relating to the affairs of the Company and the Subsidiaries to which the Purchaser and its Advisors have been afforded access in relation to the Transaction.
Data Room
"" means judgments, rulings, orders, judicial settlements, licenses, permits, certificates of authority, authorizations, approvals, registrations, franchises or similar consents, circular notices, administrative guidance, awards, or any other decisions having similar effects, of the Governmental Authority.
Decisions of Governmental Authority
"" means the following amounts of Special Bonus Liabilities to be deducted within the calculation of the Purchase Price pursuant to section 2.2:
Deducted Awards
 
 
 
 
amounting to in total 306,214,455 yen.
"" means Diversey, Inc., a U.S. corporation.
DI
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
DIPI
"" has the meaning assigned in section 3.1.
Due Diligence Information
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.16.
Employment Agreements, Etc.
"" means, with respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lease, lien, levy, charge, or other encumbrance (including any material limitation on use under Law or Contract) in respect of such property or asset (but does not include any retention of title provisions).
Encumbrances
"" means the entity conversion of the Company from a stock company () into a limited liability company () under the Companies Act effective as of October 22, 2012.
Entity Conversion
kabushiki kaisha
godo kaisha
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.27(a)(i).
Entity Conversion Plan
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.18.
Environmental Laws
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
Equity Interests
"" means, with respect to any Person, options, warrants (), convertible securities, subscription rights of such Person or other securities, instruments, Contracts or understanding of any kind obligating such Person to issue, or cause to be issued, any Company Shares.
Equity Rights
shinkabu yoyaku-ken
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.16.
Excess Wage Liabilities
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.9.
Excluded Claims
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2(e)(xvii).
Existing Overdraft Facilities
"" has the meaning assigned section 10.11(a).
External Claim
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.10.
Financial Statements
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.10.
Financial Statements, Etc.
"" means the Warranties set out in sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, and 4.27.
Fundamental Warranties
"" means all SKUs (i) currently sold or sample-marketed both inside and outside of the Territory and (ii) (a) not currently sold or sample-marketed, but (b) had been sold some time during the period between January 1, 2011 and the date of this Agreement, both inside and outside of the Territory, as set forth in the Master SKUs List.
Global Products
 
"" means the sales contract entered into between Equistar Chemicals LP, Lyondell Chemical Company and DI having a term beginning July 1, 2010, as amended by the Amendment No. 1 which became effective on April 1, 2012.
Glycol Sales Contract
"" means (i) any national, federal, state, county, municipal, local, or foreign government or any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, taxing, or administrative functions of or pertaining to government, (ii) any public international organization (including central banks and financial instrument exchanges), or (iii) any agency, division, bureau, department, or other political subdivision of any government, entity or organization described in (i) or (ii) above.
Governmental Authority
"" means (i) Governmental Authority, (ii) any company, business, enterprise, or other entity owned, in whole or in part, or controlled by any Governmental Authority, or (iii) any political party.
Governmental Entity
"" means (i) any official, Officer, employee, or representative of, or any Person acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of, any Governmental Entity, (ii) any political party or party official or candidate for political office or (iii) any company, business, enterprise or other entity owned, in whole or in part, or controlled by any Person described in (i) or (ii) above.
Governmental Official
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2(a)(iv).
Guarantees
"" means any substance that (i) is or contains asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum or petroleum-derived substances or waste, radon gas or related materials, (ii) requires investigation, removal or remediation under Environmental Laws, or is defined, listed, or identified as "hazardous waste" or "hazardous substance" thereunder, (iii) is defined, listed, or identified as "poisonous substances" or "deleterious substance" under the Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act, any order for enforcement or relevant ordinances thereof, or (iv) is toxic, explosive, corrosive, flammable, infectious, radioactive, carcinogenic, mutagenic, or otherwise hazardous and is regulated by any Governmental Authority or Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
s
"" of any Person means all obligations of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments, (iii) for the deferred purchase price of goods or services (other than trade payables or accruals incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business), (iv) under capital leases, or (v) any guarantees of the obligations described in clauses (i) through (iv) above of any other Person.
Indebtedness
"" means (i) bankruptcy proceedings, civil rehabilitation proceedings, corporate reorganization proceedings, special liquidation proceedings, or other insolvency proceedings similar thereto, or (ii) business reconstruction alternative dispute resolutions or other voluntary liquidation procedures.
Insolvency Procedures
"" means all intellectual property rights of every kind or description throughout the world, including all: (i) patents, patent applications and statutory invention registrations, including provisionals, divisionals, continuations, continuations in part, renewals, reissues, extensions, substitutions and reexaminations of any of the foregoing, and all patents that may issue on
IP
 
such applications (""); (ii) trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress, logos, designs, emblems, slogans, insignia, Internet domain names, other similar designations of source or origin, any and all common law rights thereto, and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing (including intent-to-use applications), all rights therein and all reissues, extensions and renewals of any of the foregoing, together with the goodwill symbolized by or associated with any of the foregoing (""); (iii) copyrightable works and works of authorship, copyrights, moral rights, and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing (""); (iv) trade secrets and all other proprietary or confidential information, including customer lists, marketing and other business strategies, plans and projections, financial, business, scientific, technical, economic or engineering information, ideas, know-how, algorithms, formulae, designs, methods, techniques, processes, procedures, models, and data (""); (v) computer software, including object and source code, databases or other electronic compilations of data, and documentation; and (vi) rights and remedies against past, present and future infringement, misappropriation or other violation of any of the foregoing.
Patents
Trademarks
Copyrights
Trade Secrets
"" means Greg Bollis, Lori Tylinski, Mary Miller, Hiroshi Kibuse, Masafumi (Pon) Honda, Jeff Zivan, Gaetano Redealli, Steve Dalton and Holger Theyssen.
IP Group
"" means the IP Agreement(s) to be executed between SA, DI, DIPI and the Purchaser, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 1.1-(2).
IPA
"" has the meaning assigned in section 8.1(a).
IP Registration Procedures
"" has the meaning assigned in section 2.1.
IP Transfer
"" means all computer hardware (including network and telecommunications equipment), databases and software (including associated user manuals, object code and source code) owned, used, leased or licensed by or to the Business and used by the Business.
IT System
"" means all SKUs (i) currently sold or sample-marketed in the Territory only and (ii) (a) not currently sold or sample-marketed, but (b) had been sold some time during the period between January 1, 2011 and the date of this Agreement, in the Territory only, including Teepol products, as set forth in the Master SKUs List.
Japanese Products
"" means, with respect to any Person, (i) the actual knowledge of such Person (limited to a natural person) or any Officer or employee of such Person (limited to a Person other than a natural person) and (ii) the knowledge that such Person (limited to a natural person) or any Officer or employee of such Person (limited to a Person other than a natural person) should have had after reasonable investigation.
Knowledge
"" means all laws, statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, judgments, injunctions, or similar orders of any Governmental Authority.
Laws
"" means the letter agreement to be executed by CJP DC Holdings, L.P. and CJP DC Holdings GP, Ltd., the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 8.5.
Letter Agreement
"" means licenses, permits, certificates of authority, authorizations, approvals, registrations or similar consents granted or issued by any Governmental Authority, or notifications, registrations made to any Governmental Authority, or other acts or procedures similar thereto required by relevant Laws.
Licenses
 
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2(a)(iv).
Loans
"" means the Japanese yen figure specified in the "AMOUNT:" field below the "Currency I Want:" field when typing the product of X multiplied by Y in the "AMOUNT:" field below the "Currency I Have:" field on the website and setting the "Currency I Have:" field to US Dollar, the "Currency I Want:" field to Japanese Yen, the "INTERBANK +/-:" field to and the "DATE" field to the day before the Closing Date, where:
Long-term Incentive Plan Liability
http://www.oanda.com/currency/converter/
0%
X = 36,440 (being the aggregate entitlement to SA stock appreciation rights of Masafumi (Pon) Honda, Hiroshi Kanai, Toshiro Misumi, Yoshiichiro Ooka, Yoichi Shiraishi and Tsuyoshi Umeda); and
Y = the closing trading price (in US dollars) of SEE (Common Stock) on the New York Stock Exchange on the trading day immediately before the Closing Date.
"" means any damages, claims, fines, fees, penalties, deficiencies, losses, liabilities, diminution of value or expenses (including interest, court costs, reasonable Advisors fees or other expenses for litigation or any other Claims, defaults, or assessments) that have a reasonable causal relationship () with the relevant cause.
Losses
soto inga kankei
"" means the agreed form list of Products as provided by the Sealed Air Parties, an electronic copy of which has been recorded on suitable memory devices and exchanged by the Parties on the date hereof.
Master SKUs List
"" means (i) any event having a material adverse effect on the assets, management or financial condition of the Company, provided that such event (x) shall be limited to those having a disproportionately adverse effect for the Company and (y) shall not include adverse changes to general economic circumstances or to the overall industries in which the Company is active (further provided, however, that both these restrictions prescribed in this proviso shall not be applicable when acts of God (including earthquakes), war or terrorism occurs), or (ii) any event having a material adverse effect on the financial market affecting Japanese financial institutions.
Material Adverse Effect
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.15.
Material Contracts
"" means absorption-type merger between Company, as an absorbed company, and the Purchaser, as a surviving company, which the Purchaser plans to consummate after the Closing, the details of which will be determined separately by the Purchaser at its discretion.
Merger
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.1(a).
Merger Agreement
"" means any director, executor (), executive officer, company auditor or any other officer of a Person.
Officer
shokumu shikkosha
"" means, with respect to a Person, the usual, regular, and ordinary course of business consistent with past customs and practices of such Person.
Ordinary Course of Business
"" of a legal Person means the certificate or articles of incorporation () or other comparable corporate charter documents, together with any amendments thereto.
Organizational Documents
teikan
 
"" means the IP that is licensed to the Company pursuant to the IPA.
Parent Licensed IP
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
Parties
"" means any natural person, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, proprietorship, other business organization, trust, union, association, or Governmental Authority.
Person
"" means the Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act (Act No. 303 of December 28, 1950, as amended) of Japan.
Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2.
Pre-closing Transactions
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.27.
Pre-signing Transactions
"means the Global Products and the Japanese Products.
Products
"
"" has the meaning assigned in section 2.2.
Purchase Price
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
Purchaser
"" means the Warranties set out in sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4.
Purchaser Fundamental Warranties
"" means (i) the Purchaser, its Affiliates and Carlyle Japan, LLC, and the Officers and employees thereof, and (ii) only if the Closing occurs, the Company and its Affiliates, and the Officers and employees thereof.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
"" means the warranties and representations of the Purchaser as set out in section 5.
Purchaser Warranties
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.10.
Reference Date
"" means any release, disposal, discharge, injection, spill, leak, leach, pumping, dumping, emission, escape, emptying, seeping, dispersal, migration, transport, placing and the like (including moving) of any materials through, into or upon land, soil, surface water, ground water or air, or any other entering of any materials into the environment.
Release
"" means, collectively, the Company IP, Company Direct Licensed IP, Company Used IP and Parent Licensed IP.
Relevant IP
"" means the resolution by the executor () of the Company appointed by the Purchaser (the "") resolving that the Company shall enter into the Transaction Fee Agreement in the form attached as Schedule 8.4.
Relevant Resolution
shokumu shikkosha
Executor
"" means the letter to be executed by SA in favor of the Purchaser, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 6.2(t).
Royalties Letter
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
SA
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
SABV
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
SAJ
 
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
SAJH
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
SAJ Shares
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2(a)(ii).
SAJ Transfer
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
Sealed Air Parties
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2.
Security Interests
"" means, collectively, SA, DI, DIPI, SABV, SAJ, SAJH and Diversey Europe Operations B.V.
Seller Group
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.15(d).
Seller Group Contracts
"" means (i) the Seller Group and its Affiliates, and the Officers thereof, and (ii) only if the Closing does not occur, the Company and its Affiliates, and the Officers thereof.
Seller Indemnified Parties
"" has the meaning assigned in the preamble.
Shares
"" has the meaning assigned in section 6.2(e)(xvii).
SMBC
"" means the financing commitment letter (including the exhibits thereof) from SMBC referencing "Project Sail" dated August 27, 2012.
SMBC Commitment Letter
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.16.
Special Bonus Liabilities
"" means Mr. Yoshiichiro Ooka and Mr. Takashi Manabe.
Specified Company Officers
"" means a subsidiary company as defined in Article 8, paragraph 3 of the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Accounts (Ordinance of the Ministry of Finance No. 59 of 1963, as amended) of Japan.
Subsidiary
"" means the Supply Agreement to be executed between DI and the Company, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 1.1-(3) (other than Schedule 1 which is in a form substantially agreed by the Parties and subject to final confirmation by the Parties prior to execution (primarily in respect of certain Product Lead Times and the inclusion of certain dispenser Products)).
Supply Agreement
"" means the Distribution Agreement to be executed between Diversey Europe Operations B.V. and the Company, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 1.1-(4) (other than the product prices to be set out in Schedule 1 of that agreement, which shall be the product prices calculated in accordance with the formula agreed by the Parties prior to entering into this Agreement).
TASKI Distribution Agreement
"" means all income, consumption, gross receipts, ad valorem, sales, use, employment, franchise, profits, gains, property, transfer, payroll, stamp taxes or other taxes, duties, levies, fees or charges (whether payable directly or by withholding) imposed by any Tax Authority, together with any interest and any penalties thereon or additional amounts with respect thereto.
Tax
"" means any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the assessment, determination, collection, or imposition of any Tax.
Tax Authority
 
"" means all returns and reports (including elections, declarations, statements, disclosures, schedules, estimates and information returns and other similar documents) required by Laws to be supplied to a Tax Authority and relating to Taxes.
Tax Returns
"" has the meaning assigned in the IPA.
Territory
"" has the meaning assigned in section 2.1.
Transaction
"" means the Transaction Fee Agreement to be executed between the Sealed Air Parties and the Company, the agreed form of which is set forth in Schedule 8.4.
Transaction Fee Agreement
"" means all IP owned by DI, DIPI or any of their Affiliates (other than the Company) (i) relating to Japanese Products, (ii) otherwise used solely by or on behalf of the Business or (iii) created by or on behalf of the Company and not used by DI as of the date of this Agreement , including the IP set forth on Schedule 2.1.
Transferred IP
"" has the meaning assigned in section 4.10.
Trial Balance
"" means the Transitional Services Agreement to be executed between SA, the Purchaser and the Company, the agreed form of which is set forth on Schedule 1.1-(5).
TSA
"" means the unfunded portion of the defined benefit pension scheme operated by the Company for the benefit of the Company's employees as of August 31, 2012, as agreed between the Parties, in the amount of 3,658,986,000 yen.
Unfunded Pension Plan Liability
"" means the warranties and representations of the Sealed Air Parties as set out in section 4.
Warranties
"" means the lawful currency of Japan.
yen
 
References in this Agreement to articles, sections, subsections, clauses, subclauses, paragraphs, schedules, and exhibits are references to those contained in this Agreement unless otherwise specifically indicated. Section headings are for ease of reference only and shall not be taken into account in construing this Agreement. Uses of "hereof" and "herein" shall refer to this entire Agreement. Use of "including" means, unless express words of limitation accompany any such use, "including but not limited to" or "including without limitation". Words used in this Agreement in the singular, where the context so permits, shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa. The definitions of words in the singular in this Agreement shall apply to such words when used in the plural where the context so permits and vice versa. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all the dates and times used in this Agreement refers to Japan time.
 
 
On the Closing Date, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, (i) SABV shall (and SA shall cause SABV to) sell and transfer to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser shall purchase from SABV the entire Equity Interests free and clear of all Encumbrances, and (ii) SA shall cause DI and DIPI to sell and transfer to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser shall purchase from DI and DIPI (the ""), the Transferred IP free and clear of all Encumbrances ((i) and (ii) collectively, the "").
IP Transfer
Transaction
 
 
(W  X  Y  Z) + A
Where:
W = 30,000,000,000 yen
X = 3,658,986,000 yen (an amount equal to the Unfunded Pension Plan Liability)
Y = 306,214,455 yen (an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the Deducted Awards)
Z = an amount equal to the Long-term Incentive Plan Liability
A = an amount equal to the Actual Cash.
 
 
 
 
The closing of the Transaction (the "") shall take place at the offices of the attorneys for the Sealed Air Parties in Japan, or at such other place(s) as the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser may agree, at 3:00 P.M., on November 15, 2012 (or if all conditions precedent stipulated in sections 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 have not been satisfied or waived pursuant to the relevant provision by such date, then 5 business days after the last condition precedent has been satisfied or waived), or such other date as the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser may agree (the "").
Closing
Closing Date
 
At the Closing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sealed Air Parties and the Seller Group shall be entitled to cancel all insurances of the Company which also cover companies within the Seller Group, with effect from the Closing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser agrees and acknowledges that (in the absence of fraud) it has no rights against and shall not make any claim against any member of the Seller Group (other than the Sealed Air Parties) or any present or former employee, Officer or agent of any member of the Seller Group in connection with this Agreement or its subject matter.
 
The Sealed Air Parties hereby represent and warrant to the Purchaser, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (except where another date is specifically referenced below), as set out in this section 4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The execution and delivery by the Sealed Air Parties of this Agreement, and the performance by the Sealed Air Parties of their obligations hereunder, have been duly and validly authorized and all corporate actions required to have been taken by the Seller Group or the Company in connection with the execution and delivery by the Sealed Air Parties of this Agreement have been duly and validly conducted by the time required. When duly and validly executed and delivered by the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser, this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid, and binding obligation of each of the Sealed Air Parties fully enforceable against each Sealed Air Party in accordance with its terms, except where enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar Laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
Neither the execution and delivery by the Sealed Air Parties of this Agreement nor the performance or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Pre-signing Transactions, the Pre-closing Transactions and the Transaction, will do any of the following: (a) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any Organizational Documents or other internal regulations of any of the Seller Group or the Company; or (b) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any Law or Decisions of Governmental Authority applicable to any of the Seller Group or the Company.
 
Neither the Seller Group nor the Company is required to obtain any Licenses in connection with the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for the reporting duties in connection with the Entity Conversion as set out in Schedule 4.4.
 
 
 
 
 
No Insolvency Procedures have been commenced, and there are no petitions for the commencement thereof, or, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, threats thereof, with respect to the Seller Group and the Company. Neither the Seller Group nor the Company is under any condition of insolvency, inability to pay debts, or suspension of payment, and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no threats that the Seller Group or the Company will be in such position as a result of the execution or performance of this Agreement by the Sealed Air Parties or any other event.
 
There are no Subsidiaries of the Company (other than SAJ, as of the date hereof). There are no issued Company Shares or Equity Rights of SAJ other than 9,840 shares of common stock, all of which are held by the Company as of the date hereof and all of which are held by SAJH as of the Closing Date.
 
No company other than Teepol Service Co., Ltd. and Clean Tech Co., Ltd. is an Affiliated Company of the Company. The Company owns the shares of Clean Tech Co., Ltd and Teepol Service Co., Ltd. as set forth in Schedule 4.8, beneficially and of record, free and clear of all Encumbrances, subject only to (i) the requirement
 
under the articles of incorporation of each such company that its board of directors approve the transfer of any of its shares and (ii) for shares in Teepol Service Co., Ltd., the requirements set out in the Joint Venture Agreement, dated February 1, 2006, among Kabushiki-kaisha Moroboshi Group Holdings, Johnson Diversey Kabushiki-kaisha, Johnson Professional Kabushiki-kaisha and Teepol Diversey Kabushiki-kaisha. The Company is not subject to any Claims from any Person disputing the ownership of the Company Shares or Equity Rights of any such companies, and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no threats thereof. The Company has not entered into any Contracts with any Person in connection with the assignment, transfer, purchase or acquisition of the Company Shares or Equity Rights of Clean Tech Co., Ltd or Teepol Service Co., Ltd., or the exercise of the rights thereof (including voting rights) as a shareholder thereof except for shares in Teepol Service Co., Ltd., as set out in the Joint Venture Agreement, dated February 1, 2006, among Kabushiki-kaisha Moroboshi Group Holdings, Johnson Diversey Kabushiki-kaisha, Johnson Professional Kabushiki-kaisha and Teepol Diversey Kabushiki-kaisha.
 
Except as provided under Schedule 4.9 (""), there are no material Claims, or disputes that may result in Claims, pending or threatened, against the Company or any of its properties or Assets (except for those minor) and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no events that may result in such Claims. There are no Claims, or disputes that may result in Claims, pending or threatened, against or affecting the Seller Group or the Company before any Governmental Authority that challenges or seeks to prevent, enjoin, alter or delay, in any manner, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no events that may result in such Claims. The Company is not subject to nor to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, under threat to become subject to any material Claims for compensation for damage (including product liability) from customers, business partners or any other third parties due to a defect in its products or services or with respect to the products or services sold or supplied by the Company in connection with the Business.
Excluded Claims
 
The Company has delivered or made available to the Purchaser a true and complete copy of the following (collectively, the ""): the balance sheet and profit and loss statements (the "") of the Company for each of the fiscal years ended on December 31, 2008, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, and the monthly trial balance of the Company for each month from January 2012 to July 2012 (the ""). The Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable in Japan. The Trial Balances were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the United States. The Financial Statements, Etc. are complete and correct in all material respects in their presentation of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of the dates thereof and for the periods covered thereby. There are no material false statements or omissions in the statements that must be stated and no statements of facts are necessary to be made in order for the avoidance of misunderstandings in any of the Financial Statements, Etc. Since May 31, 2012 (the
Financial Statements, Etc.
Financial Statements
Trial Balance
 
"") and other than as expressly permitted as part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (a) the Business has been conducted only in the Ordinary Course of Business (for the avoidance of doubt, Ordinary Course of Business used in this section 4.10 shall not include (i) changing the level of working capital (including extension of payment terms of accounts payable and reduction of level of inventory) inconsistent with past customs or practices, and (ii) actions listed in sections 6.2(e)(ii) to 6.2(e)(v), 6.2(e)(xxiii) and 6.2(e)(xxv) to 6.2(e)(xxxii) (both inclusive)) and (b) there have been no events having a Material Adverse Effect.
Reference Date
 
The Company has good and marketable title to each parcel of real property owned by it of record, free and clear of all Encumbrances (other than the Security Interests, which exist only on the date hereof and not as of the Closing Date) and material defects. All such real property is in good standing. With respect to all leased real property of the Company, the Company has not received any Claims or notices alleging that it is in default or breach of or is otherwise delinquent in its performance under any such lease, and each of the other parties thereto has performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it, and is not in default in all material respects, under any such lease and no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default.
 
The Company owns, or otherwise has sufficient and legally enforceable rights to use, all of the properties and assets (real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible) that are material to the Business, (excluding the IT Systems, which are the subject of section 4.14) (the ""). The Company has good, valid and marketable title to, or in the case of leased property has good and valid leasehold interests in, all Assets, including all such Assets reflected in the Financial Statements, Etc. or acquired since the date thereof (except as may be disposed in the Ordinary Course of Business after the date hereof and in accordance with this Agreement), in each case free and clear of all Encumbrances (other than the Security Interests, which exist only on the date hereof and not as of the Closing Date) and defects. The Company has maintained all such Assets in good repair, working order and operating condition in all material respects without any material defect or functional disorder subject only to ordinary wear and tear, and all such Assets are adequate and suitable in all material respects for the purposes for which they are presently being used.
Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no Contracts affecting the general employment conditions or rules of the Company ("") other than those entered into in the Ordinary Course of Business of the Company. Except for the Agreement with Kanagawa City Union dated June 23, 1999, the Company is not a party to, and does not have any obligation under, any collective bargaining agreement or other labor union contract or side agreement with any labor union or organization, nor does it have any obligation under any Contract to recognize or deal with any labor union or organization. Except for the employee subject to the Agreement with Kanagawa City Union dated June 23, 1999, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, no Officer or employee of the Company is a member of a labor union. The Company is in compliance in all material respects with all employment-related obligations imposed by applicable Law, Decisions of Governmental Authority and Employment Agreements, Etc., and there are no material violations thereof (including unpaid wages). For the three (3) years preceding the date hereof, there have been no strikes, labor disputes, demands for payment involving employees, Claims from employees with respect to violations of applicable Law, Decisions of Governmental Authority or Employment Agreements, Etc., or other labor troubles (except for those minor, but including those in connection with the restructuring or layoff conducted by the Company) between the Company and its employees, and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there is no threat of the occurrence thereof. There has been no significant resignation of employees in connection with the Pre-signing Transactions, the Pre-closing Transactions or the Transaction. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, there are no pending or threatened sexual harassment Claims against the Company or any of its Officers or employees. As of the Closing Date, other than the closing bonuses as set forth in Schedule 4.16 (the "") and the Annual Incentive Plan, Profit Sharing Plan, Long-term Incentive Plan, Sales Incentive Plan and Seasonal Bonus (the ""), the Company does not have any obligations, Indebtedness or liabilities (the "") owing to any of its employees or Officers other than those in respect of the ordinary annual remuneration and ordinary annual incentive bonus. The amount of Closing Bonuses provided in Schedule 4.16, and the Long-term Incentive Plan Liability (as of the Closing Date), respectively, is calculated in a fair and appropriate manner, respectively, in accordance with the applicable internal rules of the Seller Group and the agreements with each relevant Officers or employees in relation thereof.
Employment Agreements, Etc.
Closing Bonuses
Special Bonus Liabilities
Excess Wage Liabilities
 
(i) All Tax Returns required to be filed by the Company on or prior to the date hereof or the Closing Date have been duly and timely filed and are true, accurate and complete (except for those minor), and (ii) all Taxes required to be paid by the Company as of the date hereof or the Closing Date have been duly and timely paid. (iii) There are no instructions or complaints from tax authorities which have not been remedied (except for those minor) and, (iv) to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no specific threats that the Company may become subject to any additional taxes or tax penalty. For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties confirm that if any Losses are incurred by virtue of any tax return or report submitted by the Company found to be untrue, inaccurate or incomplete, such Losses shall be regarded as a breach of the representation and warranty made in this section 4.17 for purposes of the indemnification obligations of the Sealed Air Parties under section 10.2.
 
The Company and the operations of the Business are in compliance with all applicable Laws concerning the protection of human health or the environment or concerning Hazardous Materials ("") in all material respects. No Claims by any Person or Governmental Authority is pending or threatened against the Company with respect to Environmental Laws or any environmental matters.
Environmental Laws
 
The Company is not subject to any Indebtedness, liability or obligation (other than the general obligation to comply with Environmental Laws) relating to (i) the past or present use, management, handling, transport, treatment, generation, storage, disposal or Release of any Hazardous Materials (whether as the result of an act or omission by the Company or any other Person) or (ii) the presence of Hazardous Materials (whatever the cause of such presence) on, under or in connection with any real property (including the water underlying any such real property) owned or used by the Company, and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no threats thereof. The Sealed Air Parties have disclosed and made available to the Purchaser all information, including all studies, analyses and test results conducted in the last 3 years and in the possession, custody or control of or otherwise known to the Sealed Air Parties or the Company relating to (i) the environmental conditions on, under, or about the Assets owned, leased, operated or used presently or in the past by the Company or any predecessor thereto, and (ii) any Hazardous Materials used, managed, handled, transported, treated, generated, stored or Released by the Company or any other Person on, under, about or from any of the Assets, or otherwise in connection with the use or operation of any of the Assets of the Company or the Business.
 
The Company has no material Indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of any nature, whether absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether due or to become due, except for (i) the Loans as of the date hereof, and (ii) Indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that (a) are reflected or reserved against in the Financial Statements, Etc. or (b) have been incurred after the Reference Date in the Ordinary Course of Business. As of August 31, 2012, other than the Unfunded Pension Plan Liability of 3,658,986,000 yen stipulated in section 2.2, the Company has no unfunded pension plan liability in relation to its current or former Officers or employees. The Company has no obligation to make a cash contribution to the former Johnson Wax Professional Director Pension Plan, which covers the former directors of Johnson Wax Professional.
 
Schedule 4.21 contains a complete and correct list and summary description of all insurance policies maintained (at present or at any time during the past 3 years) by or on behalf of the Company, except for insurance policies not exceeding an annual premium of 500,000 yen per insurance policy and covering (i) cars owned by or leased to the Company or (ii) housing leased to the Company and subleased to employees. The Sealed Air Parties have delivered to the Purchaser complete and correct copies of all such policies together with all riders and amendments thereto. All insurance policies maintained by or on behalf of the Company are in full force and effect, are of a type customary for a business similar to the Business or for the assets and property covered thereby. The Company has complied in all material respects with the terms and provisions of such policies and has paid all premiums due thereon.
 
Except as provided under Schedule 4.22, the Company is not, and has not been, in conflict with or in violation or breach of or in default (except for those minor) under (i) any Laws or Decisions of Governmental Authority applicable to it, any of its Assets or the Business, (ii) the articles of incorporation and any other internal regulations of the Company, or (iii) any Contract, and (B) the Company has not received any Claims or notices alleging any such conflict, violation, breach or default.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neither the Company nor any of its Officers or employees fall under any of the Antisocial Forces Related Persons listed in Schedule 4.24-(1) or is conducting any of the Antisocial Activities listed in Schedule 4.24-(2).
 
Schedule 4.25 contains a complete and correct list of all Licenses necessary to conduct the Business (""). The Company has duly and validly obtained and maintained all of the Business Licenses, and the Company has operated the Business in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Business Licenses and the Laws governing each Business License in all material respects. There are no events which would result in any change, suspension, invalidity, cancellation, or refusal of renewal of any Business License and, to the Knowledge of the Seller Group, there are no threats of the occurrence of such events (except for the Merger and the reporting duties arising in connection with the Entity Conversion as shown in Schedule 4.4).
Business Licenses
 
All inventories of raw materials, supplies, works in progress and finished goods of the Company have been as of the date hereof, and will have been as of the Closing Date, of sound, usable and merchantable quality in all material respects subject to the Company's usual, customary and reasonable practices with respect to reasonably expected amounts of obsolete, scrap or damaged raw materials, supplies, works in progress and finished goods.
 
 
 
 
 
(the transactions in this section 4.27(a) being the "").
Pre-signing Transactions
 
 
 
 
 
To the Knowledge of the Seller Group, all of the Due Diligence Information, except for future projections, forward-looking statements, statements of personal opinion, forecasts, and estimates, is true and correct in all material respects, and does not contain any untrue or incorrect statement of a material fact, and does not omit any fact necessary, in light of the circumstances in which they were provided, to make the statements contained herein or therein not false or misleading in all material respects.
 
The Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to the Sealed Air Parties, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date (except where another date is specifically referenced below), as set out in this section 5.
 
The Purchaser is a corporation validly existing under the Laws of Japan. The Purchaser has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
The execution and delivery by the Purchaser of this Agreement, and the Purchaser's performance of its obligations hereunder, have been duly and validly authorized, and all corporate actions required to have been taken by the Purchaser in connection with the execution and delivery by the Purchaser of this Agreement have been duly and validly conducted by the time required. When duly and validly executed and delivered by the Purchaser and the other Parties, this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Purchaser enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except where enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar Laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
Neither the execution and delivery by the Purchaser of this Agreement nor the performance or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will do any of the foregoing: (a) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of the articles of incorporation or other internal regulations of the Purchaser or (b) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of any Law or Decisions of Governmental Authority applicable to the Purchaser.
 
The Purchaser is not required to obtain any Licenses in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
No Insolvency Procedures have been commenced, and there are no petitions for the commencement or threats thereof, with respect to the Purchaser. The Purchaser is not under any condition of insolvency, inability to pay debts, or suspension of payment, and there are no threats that the Purchaser will be in such a position as a result of the execution or performance of this Agreement or any other event.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The performance of the respective obligations of the Sealed Air Parties and the Purchaser set forth in sections 2.1 and 2.4 are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions at the Closing (all or any of which may be waived in whole or in part by the Parties unanimously):
 
 
 
The performance of the obligations of the Sealed Air Parties set forth in sections 2.1 and 2.4(a) are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions at the Closing (all or any of which may be waived in whole or in part by the Sealed Air Parties in their sole discretion), , any of the following conditions shall be deemed waived by the Sealed Air Parties if any non-satisfaction thereof is due to a breach of any of the agreements, covenants or obligation of the Sealed Air Parties stipulated in this Agreement (other than the condition set out in section 7.2(d) below, which shall not be capable of being so deemed waived):
provided, however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The performance of the obligations of the Purchaser set forth in sections 2.1 and 2.4(b) are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions at the Closing (all or any of which may be waived in whole or in part by the Purchaser in its sole discretion), , any of the following conditions shall be deemed waived by the Purchaser if any non-satisfaction thereof is due to a breach of any of the agreements, covenants or obligation or of the Purchaser stipulated in this Agreement:
provided, however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immediately after the Closing has occurred and by no later than the end of the Closing Date, the Purchaser shall cause the Executor to pass the Relevant Resolution. Immediately following the passing of the Relevant Resolution and by no later than the end of the Closing Date, the Sealed Air Parties shall, and the Purchaser shall cause the Company to, enter into the Transaction Fee Agreement in the form set forth in Schedule 8.4, which shall be executed between the Sealed Air Parties and the Company.
 
On or immediately after the date hereof, the Purchaser shall procure to have CJP DC Holdings, L.P. and CJP DC Holdings GP, Ltd. duly and validly execute the Letter Agreement in the form set forth in Schedule 8.5 and submit such executed letter to SA.
 
 
This Agreement may be terminated, and the transactions contemplated hereby may be abandoned, prior to the Closing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The representations and warranties of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive for the following periods from the Closing Date:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts payable in respect of the indemnification obligations of the Sealed Air Parties shall be treated as an adjustment to the Purchase Price.
 
Without prejudice to section 3.1, any due diligence review, audit or other investigation or inquiry undertaken or performed by or on behalf of the Purchaser shall not limit, qualify, modify or amend any of the representations and warranties, covenants, obligations, or indemnification obligations of the Sealed Air Parties, made or undertaken pursuant to this Agreement, irrespective of the knowledge and information received (or which should have been received) therefrom by the Purchaser.
 
The aggregate liability of the Parties pursuant to section 10.2(a) item (i) or section 10.2(b) item (i) shall be limited as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The Sealed Air Parties shall not be liable in respect of a claim for breach of Warranty unless:
 
 
 
The Sealed Air Parties shall not be liable in respect of a claim under the Warranties to the extent that:
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the indemnification provided in this section 10 shall be the sole and exclusive remedy after the Closing Date available to the Parties to this Agreement for compensation for any Losses or breaches of any of the representations or warranties contained herein or any right, Claim or action arising from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (and any claim
 
for compensation based on any other cause, including breach of contract (), warranties (), tort () or other causes of action, shall hereby be excluded); , this exclusive remedy for damages does not preclude a Party from bringing an action for specific performance or other equitable remedy to require a Party to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
saimu furiko sekinin
kashi tanpo sekinin
fuho koi sekinin
provided, however
 
If the Sealed Air Parties pay to the Purchaser Indemnified Party an amount in respect of any claim under the Warranties, and the Purchaser Indemnified Party subsequently receives from any other Person any payment as an indemnification or compensation for the Losses giving rise to such claim, the Purchaser shall thereupon pay to the Sealed Air Parties an amount equal to the payment or benefit received ((i) excluding (x) any fees and costs incurred by the Purchaser Indemnified Party in relation to their claim against the Seller or such other Person and (y) any amounts by which the liability of the Sealed Air Parties in respect of the claim under the Warranties was reduced to take account of such payment or benefit, and (ii) only to the extent of the amount of the payment made by the Sealed Air Parties to the Purchaser Indemnified Party).
 
Any claim for indemnification under this section 10 shall be made by giving written notice on or before the expiration of the periods stipulated in section 10.1. So long as an indemnified Party provides written notice of a claim setting forth in reasonable detail the grounds for indemnification on or before such date, such indemnified Party shall be entitled to pursue its rights to indemnification notwithstanding the fact that any sum due in relation to such claim is unknown or difficult to determine at the time of such notice or expiration of the survival period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of SA and SABV shall be jointly and severally liable for any and all of the (a) representations and warranties made by the Sealed Air Parties, and (b) performance of any covenant, obligations, agreements or indemnification obligations of the Sealed Air Parties under this Agreement.
 
Without prejudice to the principle of joint and several liability set out in section 11.1, any obligation, action, or right which is expressed to be an obligation, action, or right of "the Sealed Air Parties" may be validly satisfied, performed, or (as the case may be) exercised by either of the Sealed Air Parties at the Sealed Air Parties' discretion. If the Purchaser shall release or compromise the liability of either of the Sealed Air Parties under this Agreement the same shall operate as a similar release or compromise in respect of the other Sealed Air Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid, void or unenforceable under the laws of any jurisdiction, such provision shall be restrictively interpreted to the extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable in a manner consistent with the intent of the Parties, and the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, each Party will pay its own costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and closing of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
 
 
 
This Agreement and all the rights or obligations hereunder shall be binding upon and inure for the benefit of the successors of the Parties but shall not be assignable by any Party without the prior written consent of all other Parties. Any purported assignment shall be void.
 
This Agreement is intended for the benefit of the Parties hereto, and is not for the benefit of, nor may any provision hereof be enforced by, any other Person; except that the Purchaser Indemnified Parties and the Seller Indemnified Parties shall be considered third party beneficiaries of this Agreement.
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement. Any Party may enter into this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. PDF copies of the signature pages and PDF copies of other documents delivered hereunder shall be given the same legal effect as the original copies of the same.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the Laws of Japan.
For any disputes occurring in connection with this Agreement, the Tokyo District Court shall be the court of agreed exclusive first instance jurisdiction.
 
This Agreement (including the schedules and exhibits hereto) and the other documents and instruments referred to herein contain the entire understanding of the Parties with respect to the matters covered hereby and supersede all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the Parties or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof (including the Process Letter executed between SA and Carlyle Japan, LLC dated September 28, 2012).
 
This Agreement shall be prepared in English, and the English version shall be the original. In the case of any inconsistency between the original and a translation of this Agreement, the original English version shall prevail.
 
If any doubt with respect to any matter not stipulated in this Agreement or any matter with respect to the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement arises, the Parties shall resolve the matter through consultation in good faith in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officer of each Party hereto as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Tuesday, October 30, 2012  Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement with an investment vehicle of The Carlyle Group ("Carlyle"), a global alternative asset manager, for Carlyle to acquire Diversey G.K. ("Diversey Japan") (an indirect subsidiary of Diversey, Inc.) for gross proceeds of approximately 30 billion (USD equivalent of approximately 377 million).
Diversey Japan is a leading provider of cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and solutions, mainly to institutional customers in the Japanese market, with trailing twelve month sales as of September 30, 2012, of approximately $321 million.
"The determination to sell Diversey Japan follows a strategic portfolio review aimed at focusing on higher growth countries in which our portfolio offers the greatest potential," said William V. Hickey, Sealed Air's Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "We are very committed to our strategy of growing our presence in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection globally. We intend to continue our close relationship with Diversey Japan as we collaborate in areas such as product development, procurement and providing quality service to customers. The sale of Diversey Japan allows us to continue to offer leading solutions and service levels, while accelerating debt reduction and generating value for our stockholders."
The transaction is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2012, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. The price will be subject to certain purchase price adjustments. The Company noted that Diversey Japan will now be accounted for as a discontinued operation as of September 30, 2012, which is expected to impact third quarter 2012 net earnings per share by $0.03. Full third quarter results and further detail regarding the transaction will be presented on Sealed Air's upcoming earnings call on November 2, 2012.
About Sealed Air
Sealed Air is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey
TM
brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations. On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $8.1 billion in 2011, and has approximately 26,300 employees who serve customers in 175 countries. To learn more, visit .
www.sealedair.com
 
Forward Looking Statement
Company statements in this press release may be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 concerning our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and the successful closing of the transaction. These statements include comments as to future events that may affect the Company, which are based upon management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside the Company's control. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plan," "could," "estimate," "will" and similar expressions. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be revised and updated from time to time by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at or our Investor Relations home page at .
www.sec.gov
http://ir.sealedair.com
Contacts
:
Investor Relations
Amanda Butler
Sealed Air Corporation
201-703-4210
:
Media
Ken Aurichio
Sealed Air Corporation
201-703-4164
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Friday, November 2, 2012 Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE:SEE) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2012. The Company noted that following the announced sale of its Diversey Japan business, it has classified Diversey Japan as a discontinued operation as of September 30, 2012. Prior year reported and pro forma financial results have been revised to reflect this discontinued operation.
Sales for the third quarter 2012 totaled $2.0 billion including $1.9 billion from continuing operations and $79 million of sales from discontinued operations. Sales from continuing operations increased 52% over 2011, including a 56% increase from the Diversey acquisition, a 2% increase in organic sales, and 5% unfavorable currency translation.
Pro forma sales from continuing operations increased 2% on a constant dollar basis from 1% in both higher volumes and price/mix. Sales from continuing operations decreased 5% on a reported basis, including 7% from unfavorable foreign exchange translation. While we achieved positive volume growth in most regions, our Europe business continued to feel the effects of the European economic slowdown. Our growth was attributable to the successful execution of our growth programs, expansion in developing regions, the steady adoption of new solutions, and a net gain in new customer relationships.
Adjusted EPS was $0.31 for the third quarter, comprised of $0.28 from continuing operations and $0.03 from discontinued operations. We reported a loss of $6.06 per share from continuing operations, which included a $6.18 per share non-cash goodwill impairment charge and a $0.18 per share unfavorable effect from special items. Adjusted diluted EPS for 2011 was $0.48, or $0.41 on a reported basis.
 
1
On a constant dollar basis, adjusted EBITDA increased versus the prior year for both total and continuing operations results. Total Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $285 million or 14.4% of sales, which includes a $14 million unfavorable impact from currency translation. On a constant dollar basis, this represents a 4% increase compared with 2011 pro forma adjusted EBITDA of $287 million. On a continuing operations basis (excluding Diversey Japan), adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $272 million or 14.3% of sales, which also includes a $14 million unfavorable impact from currency translation. On a constant dollar basis, this represents a 2% increase compared with pro forma 2011 results of $281 million.
Commenting on our operating performance, William V. Hickey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated:
"Strong operational execution from our supply chain organization, a favorable price/cost spread, seasonality, and ongoing realization of synergies helped drive solid progress sequentially and year over year on top line results and on profitability, excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency. All of which, gives us good momentum as we finish 2012. Our sales and marketing teams continued to grow our presence in our targeted growth areas, driving net gains from new and expanded account wins, and we achieved an additional $10 million in synergy sales."
Third Quarter Segment Review
The following year-over-year net sales discussions present both actual and constant dollar sales performance. The "constant dollar" results exclude the impact of currency translation. Additionally, "adjusted operating profit" results exclude impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring and special items. The balance of the discussion is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis.
Food Packaging Segment
Sales were 2% higher on a constant dollar basis or decreased 4% on a reported basis. Food Packaging achieved 2% higher volumes, led by 8% volume growth in Latin America and positive volume growth in all other regions. Prior and current pricing actions were offset by unfavorable product mix, primarily in North America. Adjusted operating profit decreased 7% to $70 million, or 13.6% of net sales, and was $69 million or 13.4% of net sales on a reported basis. These results compare with $75 million, or 14.2% of net sales, in 2011. On a sequential basis, third quarter 2012 operating profit and margin results were significantly higher due to improved operational execution, tight control of expenses and lower petrochemical based raw material costs.
Food Solutions Segment
Sales increased 1% on a constant dollar basis with 2% higher volumes led by strength in fluids packaging in North America. Price/mix declined by 1%, primarily in North America. Third quarter sales decreased 4% on a reported basis. Adjusted operating profit increased 10% to $32 million, or 12.7% of net sales, on lower petrochemical based raw material costs and solid operational performance. Reported operating profit increased 9% to $32 million, or 12.5% of net sales, compared with $29 million or 11.1% in 2011.
Protective Packaging Segment
Sales decreased 1% on a constant dollar basis, or 5% on a reported basis, with relatively steady volume performance and 1% lower price/mix. We continued to achieve 2% higher
 
2
volumes in North America due to our expanded market presence and strength in new solutions targeting e-commerce applications. This growth was partially offset by 2% lower EMEA volumes due to weak economic conditions in southern Europe. On an adjusted basis, third quarter 2012 operating profit was $49 million, or 14.3% of net sales, due to expense control and benefits from our innovative, more sustainable film structures. Reported operating profit held steady at $48 million, but margin increased 70 basis points to 14.1%. This compares with $49 million or 13.4% of net sales in 2011.
Diversey Segment
(
reflects discontinued operations impact for Diversey Japan and pro forma information for 2011 results)
On a constant dollar basis, third quarter 2012 sales increased 2% to $835 million, with $756 million from continuing operations and $79 million from discontinued operations. The constant dollar sales increase reflects 2% higher price from prior pricing actions and a modest 0.5% decline in unit volumes. Pro forma sales, including the effect of foreign exchange, decreased 6% on a year-over-year basis to $777 million, which included $699 million from continuing operations and $79 million from discontinued operations. Volumes achieved solid growth in developing regions but remained weak in EMEA and to a lesser extent in North America. Unit volume performance in EMEA declined modestly compared to prior quarters as weakness in southern Europe offset more stabilized demand in northern Europe.
Reported and on an adjusted basis, operating profit was $39 million, or 5.1% of net sales, with $30 million from continuing operations and $10 million from discontinued operations. Third quarter operating profit includes an unfavorable currency translation of $7 million. This compares with pro forma adjusted operating profit of $41 million or 4.9% of net sales in 2011, with $36 million from continuing operations and $4 million from discontinued operations. Pro forma operating profit for third quarter 2011 was $34 million or 4.1% of net sales, with $29 million from continuing operations and $4 million from discontinued operations. The segment benefited from approximately $15 million in cost synergies and a positive price/cost spread, which were offset by ongoing investments in the business.
On October 30, 2012, we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell our Diversey Japan business for approximately USD-equivalent 377 million, gross. We expect to record a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately USD-equivalent 260 million when the transaction is completed in the fourth quarter. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed by year end. The results of Diversey Japan's business have been classified as discontinued operations, net of taxes, and its business results combined with costs associated with the transaction are reported as "income or loss from discontinued operations" (net of tax) in the consolidated statement of operations. Diversey Japan assets and liabilities are segregated on the balance sheet as "assets/liabilities held for sale".
Included for reference in the attached financial tables are revised financials reflecting the classification of Diversey Japan business to discontinued operations for the first three quarters of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011, as well as pro forma results for the first three quarters of 2011.
Other Category
Sales increased 12% on a constant dollar basis, or 4% on a reported basis, with 8% higher volumes, 3% increase in price/mix and 1% from an acquisition. Volume growth was largely from our Medical Applications business on expanded market presence in EMEA and Asia Pacific. Adjusted and reported operating profit increased to $3 million, or 3.2% of net sales. This compares with $0.5 million or 0.6% of net sales, in 2011.
 
3
Free Cash Flow and Net Debt
We generated free cash flow of $34 million in the quarter, including $28 million from continuing operations and $7 million from discontinued operations (free cash flow is pre-restructuring and mandatory debt payments). Additionally, we prepaid our third quarter 2013 term loan installments of $30 million. For the first nine months of 2012, we generated $158 million of free cash flow with $139 from continuing operations and $19 million from discontinued operations. As of early fourth quarter 2012, we had prepaid all of our 2013 installments.
In the third quarter, we reduced our net debt by approximately $35 million to $5.26 billion due to seasonally higher levels of cash generation from the businesses and effective management of inventory levels. Our net debt includes the W. R. Grace settlement liability.
Synergies and 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program
We announced our 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program in the fourth quarter of 2011, and in the second quarter of 2012, we expanded the program to address increasing macroeconomic weakness. We still expect approximately 40% of the program benefits to be realized in Cost of Sales and 60% in SG&A.
The 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program is summarized as:
 
The actual timing of future costs and cash payments is subject to change due to a variety of factors that may cause a portion of the spending and benefits to occur later than we currently expect. Additionally, changes in foreign exchange translation may impact future costs and benefits.
Revenue Synergies
We achieved estimated annualized synergy revenue of approximately $25 million year-to-date and are working with targeted accounts to close additional opportunities. We continue to target $70 million in revenue synergies by the end of 2013.
Goodwill
As part of our interim review for impairment of our reporting segments, we identified an impairment within our Diversey segment due to lower-than-anticipated growth rates and
 
4
operating margin performance from challenging macroeconomic conditions. As a result, we have recorded a non-cash, pre-tax charge for impairment of goodwill and certain intangible assets of $1.2 billion. This estimated amount is subject to finalization. Goodwill arises in an acquisition when the fair value paid for a business exceeds the value of the identifiable net assets. We do not expect this impairment to result in any future cash expenditures, impact liquidity, affect the ongoing business or financial performance of the Diversey segment, or impact compliance with our debt covenants.
2012 Outlook for Continuing Operations
Commenting on our outlook, Mr. Hickey stated:
"While we remain confident in the underlying fundamentals of our business and achieved good momentum in the third quarter, uncertainty in end market demand and relative customer confidence to drive near-term capital investment keeps us cautious for the fourth quarter. We are anticipating improved sales and adjusted EBITDA performance from continuing operations on a year-over-year and sequential basis as we continue to execute on our growth programs, maintain tight cost controls, and seek to exceed synergy goals. The strength of seasonal trends, moderating raw material costs and foreign exchange rates are drivers to performance within our range. Additionally, we look to complete the sale of our Diversey Japan business and exceed our net debt target of $4.95 billion by year end by leveraging proceeds from the sale."
We have adjusted our full year 2012 guidance assumptions to reflect the classification of Diversey Japan as discontinued operations.
 
Our full year 2012 guidance assumptions referenced in our second quarter 2012 earnings release for depreciation and amortization, raw material inflation, cash taxes, capital expenditures and our full year average fully diluted common share count have not changed. Adjusted EPS guidance excludes the payment of the W. R. Grace settlement, as the exact timing of the settlement is unknown. Final payment of the W. R. Grace settlement is expected to be accretive to adjusted EPS by approximately $0.13 annually following the payment date under the assumption of using a substantial portion of cash on hand for the payment and ceasing to accrue interest on the settlement amount. Additionally, guidance excludes any non-operating gains or losses that may be recognized in 2012 due to currency fluctuations in Venezuela.
 
5
Web Site and Conference Call Information
William V. Hickey, our Chairman and CEO, Jerome A. Peribere, our President and COO, and Carol P. Lowe, our Senior Vice President and CFO, will conduct an investor conference call today at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to discuss our earnings results. The conference call will be webcast live on our web site at in the section. The link to the event can be found on the home page as well as under the Presentations & Events tab. Listeners should go to the web site prior to the call to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the Company's web site.
www.sealedair.com
Investor Information
Investor Information
Investors who cannot access the webcast may listen to the conference call live via telephone by dialing (888) 680-0892 (domestic) or (617) 213-4858 (international) and use the participant code 88915180. Telephonic replay will be available beginning today at 11:00 a.m. (ET) and ending on Friday, November 23, 2012 at 11:59 p.m. (ET). To listen to the replay, please dial (888) 286-8010 (domestic) or (617) 801-6888 (international) and use the confirmation code 77202308.
Business
Sealed Air is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey
TM
brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations. On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $8.1 billion in 2011, and has approximately 26,300 employees who serve customers in 175 countries. To learn more, visit .
www.sealedair.com
Non-U.S. GAAP Information
In this press release and supplement, we have included several non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EPS, adjusted Cash EPS, net sales on a "constant dollar" basis, adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted net earnings, free cash flow and EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. We present results and guidance, adjusted to eliminate the effects of specified items that would otherwise be included under U.S. GAAP, to aid in comparisons with other periods or prior guidance. We may use adjusted EPS, net sales on a constant dollar basis, adjusted net earnings, adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit, measures of cash flow, net debt, and EBITDA figures to determine performance-based compensation. Our management uses financial measures excluding the effects of foreign currency translation in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that this information may be useful to investors. For important information on our use of non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, see the attached supplementary information entitled "Explanatory Note on Use of Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Information," "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Profit and Operating Profit to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Gross Profit and Operating Profit," "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Diluted Net (Loss) Earnings Per Common Share to Non-U.S. GAAP Adjusted Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share," "Revision for Discontinued Operations," "Additional Pro Forma Information," "Non-U.S. GAAP Free Cash Flow," "Reconciliation of Net (Loss) Earnings Available to Common Stockholders to Non-U.S. GAAP EBIT, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA," "Components of Change in Net Sales - Business Segments and Other" and "Components of Change in Net Sales-Geographic Region."
 
6
Non-U.S. GAAP free cash flow may not represent residual cash available for discretionary or non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from this measure, including mandatory debt servicing.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release and supplement contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include 2012 financial expectations and assumptions associated with our 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program, availability and pricing of raw materials, success of our growth programs, economic conditions, and the success of pricing actions. These statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general domestic and international economic and political conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; credit ratings; competitive conditions and contract terms; currency translation and devaluation effects, including Venezuela; the success of our financial growth, profitability and manufacturing strategies and our cost reduction and productivity efforts; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; pandemics; environmental matters; regulatory actions and legal matters; and the successful integration of Diversey. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
7
 
 
 
 
In this supplementary information we present financial information in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We also present financial information that does not conform to U.S. GAAP, which we refer to as non-U.S. GAAP, as our management believes it is useful to investors. In addition, non-U.S. GAAP measures are used by management to review and analyze our operating performance and, along with other data, as internal measures for setting annual budgets and forecasts, assessing financial performance, providing guidance and comparing our financial performance with our peers. The non-U.S. GAAP information has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for U.S. GAAP information. It does not purport to represent any similarly titled U.S. GAAP information and is not an indicator of our performance under U.S. GAAP. Further, the non-U.S. GAAP financial measures that we present may not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by others. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on these non-U.S. GAAP measures. Further, investors are urged to review and consider carefully the adjustments made by management to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to arrive at these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures.
Our management will assess our financial results, such as gross profit, operating profit and diluted net earnings per common share ("EPS"), both on a U.S. GAAP basis and on an adjusted non-U.S. GAAP basis. Examples of some other supplemental financial metrics our management will also use to assess our financial performance include Earnings before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA"), Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EPS, Adjusted Cash EPS and Free Cash Flow. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide management with additional means to understand and evaluate the core operating results and trends in our ongoing business by eliminating certain one-time expenses (which may not occur in each period presented) and other items that management believes might otherwise make comparisons of our ongoing business with prior periods and peers more difficult, obscure trends in ongoing operations or reduce management's ability to make useful forecasts. Our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are also considered in calculations of our performance measures set by the Organization and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors for purposes of determining incentive compensation.
The non-U.S. GAAP financial metrics mentioned above exclude items we consider unusual or special items and also exclude their related tax effects. We evaluate the unusual or special items on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an unusual or special item for purposes of determining our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including, among other things (i) its nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis. We also present Adjusted Cash EPS, which excludes the amortization of acquired intangible assets, non-cash interest expense (including the accrued interest expense related to the Settlement agreement) and non-cash taxes, which aids in presenting our EPS on an adjusted cash basis.
Another non-U.S. GAAP financial measure we present is our core effective income tax rate or provision, ("core tax rate"). Our core tax rate is a measure of our U.S. GAAP effective tax rate, adjusted to exclude the tax impact from the special items that are excluded from our adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS metrics. We consider our core tax rate as an indicator of the taxes on our core business. The tax situation and effective tax rate in the specific countries where the excluded or special items occur will determine the impact (positive or negative) to our core tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The sum of the quarters may not equal the year to date results due to rounding.
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma information included in this release has been revised to reflect the reclass of the results of the Diversey Japan business as discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


