FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20120130151835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 27, 2012 the Board of Directors of Sealed Air Corporation  (the "Company") elected Jerry R. Whitaker as a director, effective as of January 30, 2012.  The Board expects to determine committee assignments for Mr. Whitaker at a subsequent meeting.  Mr. Whitaker will receive compensation under the Company's compensatory and other arrangements for non-management directors which are described in the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 6, 2011.  Mr. Whitaker is not a party to any transaction described in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  
A copy of the Company's press release dated January 30, 2012, announcing Mr. Whitaker's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
                      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
ELMWOOD PARK, N.J., Monday, January 30, 2012 - Sealed Air Corporation (NYSE: SEE) announced today that Mr. Jerry R. Whitaker was elected to the Company's Board of Directors as an independent director, effective immediately.
Mr. Whitaker is the retired President of the Electrical Sector-Americas Group of Eaton Corporation, a global diversified power management company that manufactures electrical and industrial products and services.  The Electrical Sector-Americas represents the largest operating unit of Eaton Corporation.  During Mr. Whitaker's 17-year tenure at Eaton Corporation, he held several executive management positions and established a track record of improving profitability across the multinational manufacturing footprint and expanding Eaton's market presence in targeted segments.  Currently, Mr. Whitaker serves as a director of Matthews International Inc. (a NASDAQ listed company) and as a director of Crescent Electric Supply Company.  He also serves on the boards of the Carnegie Science Center (serving as Chairman of the Carnegie Science Center Awards for Excellence over the last ten years), the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, Pittsburgh American Middle East Institute and the Corporate Circles Board of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.  Mr. Whitaker holds a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Syracuse University and a master of business administration degree from George Washington University.
Business
Sealed Air is the new global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection.  With widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap brand cushioning, Cryovac brand food packaging solutions and Diversey brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, Sealed Air offers efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations.  On a pro forma basis, Sealed Air generated revenue of $7.6 billion in 2010 and has approximately 26,000 employees who serve customers in 175 countries.  To learn more, visit .
www.sealedair.com
Contact
Amanda H. Butler
Director, Investor Relations
201-703-4210
Investor.relations@sealedair.com


