FILE:SEE/SEE-8K-20121105143811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 5, 2012, Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company") plans to hold a meeting with certain of its lenders to seek an amendment to its senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). Although the Company is currently in compliance with, and expects to continue to be in compliance with, the covenants set forth in the Credit Facility, the Company would like to amend certain covenants to provide additional flexibility. Further, such amendment provides the Company with substantial savings in future interest expense. There can be no assurance that such amendment will occur.
Further, the Company is disclosing under Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K the information attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1, which information is incorporated herein by reference. This is an excerpt from a presentation, a portion of which has not been previously reported, that is being provided to certain of our lenders in connection with the amendment of the Company's Credit Facility.
The information in this Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as may be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the information furnished herein contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by such words as "anticipates," "believes," "plan," "assumes," "could," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. Examples of these forward-looking statements include 2012 financial expectations and assumptions associated with our 2011-2014 Integration & Optimization Program, availability and pricing of raw materials, success of our growth programs, economic conditions, and the success of pricing actions. These statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. A variety of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations, including general domestic and international economic and political conditions affecting packaging utilization; changes in our raw material and energy costs; credit ratings; competitive conditions and contract terms; currency translation and devaluation effects, including Venezuela; the success of our financial growth, profitability and manufacturing strategies and our cost reduction and productivity efforts; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; pandemics; environmental matters; regulatory actions and legal matters; and the successful integration of Diversey. For more extensive information, see "Risk Factors" and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," which appear in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as revised and updated by our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
(d)   Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 5, 2012
 



