FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20030730172600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a News Release on July 30, 2003 as follows:
     Cleveland, OH  July 30, 2003  Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF) today announced the implementation of an action plan to significantly improve operating results. These initiatives are designed to achieve annualized operating cost savings in excess of $35 million from 2003 results in order to overcome continuing ore quality throughput challenges in Michigan, high energy costs, and cope with an uncertain iron and steel market.
     John S. Brinzo, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "As we have transformed our business model from a management company to a larger merchant mining company, so must we adapt our cost structure to the new business."
     The plan will focus on all areas of the Company including:
Table of Contents
As part of this program, the Company today indicated that it reduced its staffing levels, as follows:
The Company is targeting these and other actions to improve pre-tax operating results by at least $3.50 per share on an annual basis starting in 2004, and would be fully reflected by 2005. The salaried employee reduction will result in a pre-tax restructuring charge in the third quarter in excess of $10 million.
     John S. Brinzo also said, "We regret having to reduce employment and the fact that many fine employees are being adversely affected. However, if Cliffs is to succeed in its strategy of consolidating the North American iron ore industry, sustaining good jobs and benefits, and providing a satisfactory return to investors, we must relentlessly emphasize only those activities that improve productivity and create value. We must therefore quickly, aggressively, and comprehensively reduce our costs. This action plan will focus the entire organization on continuing to improve operations and the balance sheet and ensure that Cleveland-Cliffs remains competitive."
     Brinzo further stated, "Cliffs is taking difficult actions to reduce its cost structure and to ensure that it is well-positioned. We will continue to look at everything to reduce costs, while increasing our position as the pre-eminent supplier of iron ore to the North American steel industry."
Table of Contents
     Cleveland-Cliffs is the largest supplier of iron ore pellets to the North American steel industry. The Company operates iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. References in this news release to "Cliffs" and "Company" include subsidiaries and affiliates as appropriate in the context.
     This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
     Actual results may differ materially from such statements for a variety of factors; such as: changes in cost factors including energy costs, ore grades, and employee benefit costs.
     Reference is made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, as set forth in the Company's most recent Annual Report and Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available publicly on Cliffs' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superceded by subsequent events.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 30, 2003



