FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20030729164509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (216-694-5700)
 
 
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a News Release on July 28, 2003 as follows:
     Cleveland, OH  July 28, 2003  Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF) today announced the appointment of Donald J. Gallagher to the position of Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, on July 29, 2003.
     John S. Brinzo, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Don will play a significant role in the transformation of Cliffs. His experience, strong leadership qualities and broad range of skills are critical to our efforts going forward. We are fortunate to have an executive of Don's caliber within the organization to play such a key role."
     Mr. Gallagher, 51, joined Cliffs in 1981 in the commercial department. He has held various management positions within the Company, and became Vice President  Sales in 1998. Mr. Gallagher received a B.A. degree in economics from Yale University and an M.B.A. from Case Western Reserve University. He and his wife, Maureen, reside in Brecksville, Ohio.
     Mr. Gallagher succeeds Cynthia B. Bezik, Senior Vice President  Finance, who has left the Company to pursue other opportunities. In addition, R. Emmet, Vice President  Financial Planning and Treasurer, has retired after over 27 years of dedicated service.
     John S. Brinzo, further stated, "With these changes, we will not replace the positions of vice presidents in either sales and treasury. The sales organization will continue to report to William R. Calfee, Executive Vice President  Commercial. Mr. Gallagher will responsible for finance, financial reporting, accounting, financial planning, treasury, and investor relations functions. As a result, we have reduced the number of officers to a total of nine as part of our on-going focus to simplify our corporate structure, reduce administrative costs and add value. "
     Cleveland-Cliffs is the largest supplier of iron ore pellets to the North American steel industry. The Company operates iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. References in this news release to "Cliffs" and "Company" include subsidiaries and affiliates as appropriate in the context.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.



