FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20041012091718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a news release on October 11, 2004 as follows: CLIFFS ANNOUNCES LABOR AGREEMENT AT WABUSH MINES CLEVELAND, OH  October 11, 2004  Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF) announced today that contract settlements have been reached and ratified by the United Steelworkers Union, representing approximately 575 hourly employees at Wabush Mines in Canada. In July, the United Steelworkers of America initiated a strike that idled Wabush Mines' mining and concentrating facilities in Labrador, Newfoundland and pelletizing and shipping facilities in Pointe Noire, Quebec. Operations are set to resume today. Company officials said they are pleased the work stoppage is over. With new contracts in place, now is the time to move forward and work towards the long-term success of Wabush. Wabush Mines is owned jointly by Stelco Inc. 44.6%, Dofasco Inc. 28.57% and a subsidiary of Cleveland-Cliffs 26.83%. Wabush has the capacity to produce 6 million to ns of iron ore pellets per year. * * * * * * * Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. The Company operates six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. References in this news release to "Cliffs" and "Company" include subsidiaries and affiliates as appropriate in the context. This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from statements for a variety of factors. Reference is also made to the detailed explanation of th e many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, as set forth in the Company's Annual Report for 2003 and Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cliffs' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superceded by subsequent events.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


