FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20040429095602.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 28, 2004, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc issued a news release announcing the unaudited financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99(a) to this Current Report on Form 8-K. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 29, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99(a)
     Cleveland, OH  April 28, 2004  Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF) today reported a first quarter 2004 net loss of $.6 million, and a loss attributable to common shares of $.16 per share (all per share amounts are "diluted") reflecting the effect on 2004 of $1.1 million preferred dividends related to the January 2004 preferred stock offering. Included in the first quarter loss was a $4.5 million pre-tax ($3.6 million after-tax) accrual for stock-based compensation reflecting a higher Cliffs' stock price, and a $1.6 million pre-tax ($1.3 million after-tax) increase in the provision for customer bankruptcy exposures. Excluding these items, Cliffs' after-tax earnings would have been $4.3 million. Net income in the first quarter of 2003 was $2.2 million, or $.21 per share.
     The earning decrease is due to the following major factors:
     Partially offsetting were the following items:
 
The decrease in income taxes reflected lower alternative minimum taxes due to the decrease in pre-tax earnings.
     At March 31, 2004, Cliffs had 4.2 million tons of pellets in inventory compared to 4.1 million tons at December 31, 2003 and 5.0 million tons at March 31, 2003. Following is a summary of production tonnage for the first quarter and the current forecast for the full year, compared with 2003:
     *Excludes 1.5 million tons of production under previous ownership.
Liquidity
     At March 31, 2004, Cliffs had $179.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and no outstanding debt. In January 2004, Cliffs completed an offering of $172.5 million of redeemable cumulative convertible perpetual preferred stock. The preferred stock will pay cash dividends at the rate of 3.25 percent per annum, with the first dividend of $1.1 million for the partial period ended March 31, 2004 paid in April 2004. Cliffs utilized a portion of the $166 million net proceeds from the offering to retire the remaining $25.0 million of senior unsecured notes and $25.4 million to fund its underfunded salaried pension plans. Cliffs expects to use remaining proceeds for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures, increased investments in existing mines and additional contributions to its pension plans.
 
     Subsequent to the sale of substantially all of its assets to Severstal North America, Inc. on January 30, 2004, Rouge Industries, Inc. repaid the $10 million secured loan plus accrued interest. Severstal also assumed the Company's pellet sales contract with Rouge with minimal modifications.
Outlook
     Steel industry fundamentals in North America remain strong, with solid demand and good pricing. Domestic steel mills are operating at high levels, which is projected to continue as the economy continues to strengthen and China's increasing consumption of steel products absorbs global capacity.
     John S. Brinzo, Cliffs' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated "The domestic and global iron ore markets are exceptionally strong and we remain sold out for the year. While we would liked to have seen better first quarter results, they typically are not reflective of our full year results, due to disproportionately low sales volume with shipping lanes closed, and carryover of previous years' pricing due to shipment timing. Actions are being taken to mitigate higher operating cost incurred in the first quarter. These actions, coupled with higher sales volume and full 2004 price realization, will produce positive results for the full year."
     Cost of goods sold and operating expenses (net of expenses related to freight and minority interest) for the full year 2004 are expected to be approximately three percent below 2003 on a cost per ton of sales basis.
     Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. The Company operates six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada.
     The results of operations reported in this release are subject to change pending completion of the Company's external audit.
     This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
     Actual results may differ materially from such statements for a variety of factors; such as: the expectations for pellet sales and mine operations and the projected liquidity requirements in 2004 may differ significantly from actual results because of changes in demand for iron ore pellets by North American integrated steel producers due to changes in steel utilization rates, operational factors, electric furnace production or imports of semi-finished steel or pig iron; changes in the financial condition of the Company's partners and/or customers; rejection of major contracts and/or venture agreements by customers and/or participants under provisions of the U. S. Bankruptcy Code or similar statutes in other countries; events or circumstances that could impair or adversely impact the viability of a mine and the carrying value of associated assets;
 
problems with productivity, labor disputes, weather conditions, fluctuations in ore grade, tons mined, changes in cost factors including energy costs, and employee benefit costs; and the effect of these various risks on the Company's liquidity and financial position.
     Reference is made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, as set forth in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available publicly on Cliffs' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superceded by subsequent events.
     Cliffs will host a conference call on first quarter 2004 results tomorrow, April 29, at 10:00 a.m. EDT. The call will be broadcast live on Cliffs' website at www.cleveland-cliffs.com. A replay of the call will be available on the website for 30 days. Cliffs plans to file its first quarter 2004 10-Q Report with the Securities and Exchange Commission later this week. For a more complete discussion of operations and financial position, please refer to the 10-Q Report.
Contacts: Media: (216) 694-4870 Financial Community: (800) 214-0739 or (216) 694-5459
News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at www.cleveland-cliffs.com
 
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Financial Statements
     In management's opinion, the unaudited financial statements present fairly the Company's financial position and results. All financial information and footnote disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements have not been included. For further information, please refer to the Company's latest Annual Report.
 


