FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20040202165148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published news releases on January 30, 2004 and February 2, 2004. Copies of these news releases are included as Exhibits 99(a) and 99(b) to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 2, 2004

Exhibit 99(a) CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC COMMENTS ON RESTRUCTURING OF STELCO INC. Cleveland, OH - January 30, 2004 - Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF), commented today on Stelco's Order for Protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act in Ontario, Canada. Stelco is an equity participant in three mines managed by Cliffs. Stelco has a 44.6 percent ownership in Wabush Mines, which has facilities in Newfoundland and Quebec, Canada. U.S. subsidiaries of Stelco (which are not believed to have filed for bankruptcy protection) own 14.7 percent of Hibbing Taconite Company-Joint Venture and 15 percent of Tilden Mining Company L.C. As of the time of the Order, Cliffs had no trade receivables with Stelco, and Stelco was current on its cash funding obligations at all three of the mines named above. It would be premature to speculate on Stelco's actions subsequent to obtaining the Order. John S. Brinzo, Cliffs' chairman and chief executive officer, said, Cliffs has a long and valued relationship with Stelco which we expect to continue. We are optimistic that Stelco will restructure and emerge a stronger, more competitive steel company. Cleveland-Cliffs, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America, and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. The Company operates six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. * * * * * References in this news release to the "Company" include subsidiaries and affiliates as appropriate in the context. This news release contains predictive statements with respect to the Stelco bankruptcy that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Contacts: Media: (216) 694-4870 Financial Community: (800) 214-0739 or (216) 694-5459 News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at www.cleveland-cliffs.com 4

Exhibit 99(b) CLIFFS ANNOUNCES ASSUMPTION OF ROUGE SALES CONTRACT BY SEVERSTAL NORTH AMERICA, INC. Cleveland, OH - February 2, 2004 - Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE:CLF) announced today that as part of the acquisition of the assets of Rouge Industries, SeverStal North America, Inc. has assumed Cliffs' pellet sales contract with Rouge with minimal modifications. The contract with Rouge provided that Cliffs would be the Company's sole supplier of iron ore pellets through 2012. Cliffs sold 3.0 million tons of pellets to Rouge in 2003. On October 23, 2003, Rouge filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and on January 30, 2004, sold substantially all of its assets to SeverStal North America. SeverStal North America is a U.S. based affiliate of OAO SeverStal which is Russia's second largest steel producer. John S. Brinzo, Cliffs' chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Cliffs has had a long and valued relationship with Rouge. We congratulate SeverStal on its successful acquisition of the Rouge assets. We look forward to building on our relationship with SeverStal and are very pleased to continue to be the Company's exclusive pellet supplier." Cleveland-Cliffs, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America, and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in North America and Canada. The Company operates six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. * * * * * References in this news release to "Cliffs" and "Company" include subsidiaries and affiliates as appropriate in the context. This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from statements for a variety of factors, such as: changes in the demand for iron ore pellets by SeverStal, or events or circumstances that could impair or adversely impact the ability of Cliffs or SeverStal to perform under these arrangements. 5
Reference is made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, as set forth in the Company's Annual Report for 2002 and Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q and the Form 8-K filed January 14, 2004 and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cliffs' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superceded by subsequent events. Contacts: Media: (216) 694-4870 Financial Community: (800) 214-0739 or (216) 694-5459 News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at WWW.CLEVELAND-CLIFFS.COM 6



