FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20050725161313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On April 6, 2005, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cliffs" or the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to report that on March 31, 2005 Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Limited ("Cliffs Australia"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired approximately 68 percent of the outstanding shares in Portman Limited ("Portman"), a Western Australia based iron ore mining and exploration company for $371.7 million. Through the close of the Offer on April 19, 2005, Cliffs Australia acquired an additional 12 percent for $62.1 million, increasing its ownership to approximately 80 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman. The consideration for each Portman Share was A$3.85 in cash. The assets consist primarily of land, mineral rights and iron ore reserves.
On June 14, 2005, the Company filed an amended Current Report on Form 8-K/A to provide additional financial information and amend Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on April 6, 2005. The consolidated financial statements of Portman as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004 included in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on June 14, 2005 were not audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States of America. This amendment No. 2 to Form 8-K on Form 8-K/A furnishes the audited financial statements of Portman as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004 and amends Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed June 14, 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) Financial Statements of the Business Acquired
The following consolidated financial statements of Portman are included as Exhibit 99.2 in this Form 8-K/A.
Statement of Financial Performance for the Year Ended 31 December 2004 Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2004 Statement of Cash Flows for the Year Ended 31 December 2004 Notes to and Forming Part of the Financial Statements
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The following unaudited condensed consolidated pro forma financial information of Cliffs, giving effect to the acquisition of Portman, prepared pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X, are included as Exhibit 99.3 in this Form 8-K/A.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of March 31, 2005 Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
     (c) Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
PORTMAN LIMITED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 (Australian Currency)
The accompanying notes form part of this Statement of Financial Performance.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 (Australian Currency)
The accompanying notes form part of this Statement of Financial Position.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 (Australian Currency)
For the purpose of the cash flow statements, cash includes cash on hand, cash at bank and investments in short term money market instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
The accompanying notes form part of this Statement of Cash Flows.
This Statement of Cash Flow complies with IAS 7 "Cash Flow Statements".
 
NOTES TO AND FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 (All amounts are reflected in Australian currency unless otherwise noted)
NOTE 1:
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
These consolidated financial statements of Portman Limited (the "Company") have been prepared in accordance with applicable Australian Accounting Standards with the exclusion of the presentation of the stand alone Parent company financial statements. Other mandatory professional reporting requirements (Urgent Issues Group Consensus Views) have also been complied with. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared to fulfill Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cliffs"), majority shareholder as of March 31, 2005 (as fully described in Note 37), reporting requirements in the United States of America.
The financial report has been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 2: PROFIT AND LOSS ITEMS
 
NOTE 3: INCOME TAX
The difference between income tax expense provided in the financial statements and the prima facie income tax expense is reconciled as follows:
The economic entity has estimated capital tax losses, the benefit of which at 30%, have not been brought to account as follows:
The benefit for the capital tax losses will only be obtained if:
Tax Consolidation
Effective 1 January 2004, for the purposes of income taxation, Portman Ltd and its 100% owned subsidiaries formed a tax consolidated group. Members of the group have entered into a tax sharing arrangement in order to allocate income tax expense to the wholly-owned subsidiaries on a notional income tax basis. Amounts owed by the subsidiaries to the head entity are non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand by the head entity. The head entity of the tax consolidated group is Portman Ltd.
There were no material changes to the deferred tax balances as a result of the revised tax legislation.
Portman Ltd has not formally notified the Australian Tax Office of its adoption of the tax consolidation regime, but will do so when it lodges its income tax return for the year ended 31 December 2004.
 
NOTE 4 DIVIDENDS PAID OR PROVIDED FOR ON ORDINARY SHARES
The Company's franking year extends for twelve months after its financial year.
NOTE 5: CASH ASSETS (CURRENT)
Investments in short term money market instruments are bearing fixed interest rates of 5.65%.
 
NOTE 6 RECEIVABLES (CURRENT)
Terms and conditions
NOTE 7: INVENTORIES (CURRENT)
NOTE 8: OTHER ASSETS (CURRENT)
NOTE 9: RECEIVABLES (NON CURRENT)
Terms and Conditions
NOTE 10: INVENTORIES (NON CURRENT)
 
NOTE 11:
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (NON CURRENT)
(a) Controlled Entities of Portman Limited
 
NOTE 12: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (NON CURRENT)
 
NOTE 13: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (NON CURRENT)
NOTE 14: OTHER ASSETS (NON CURRENT)
NOTE 15: PAYABLES (CURRENT)
Terms and Conditions
NOTE 16: INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES (CURRENT)
NOTE 17: TAX LIABILITIES (CURRENT)
NOTE 18: PROVISIONS (CURRENT)
NOTE 19: OTHER LIABILITIES (CURRENT)
NOTE 20: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NON CURRENT)
 
NOTE 21: PROVISIONS (NON CURRENT)
NOTE 22: OTHER LIABILITIES (NON CURRENT)
NOTE 23: CONTRIBUTED EQUITY
 
 
NOTE 24: RETAINED PROFITS
NOTE 25: EARNINGS PER SHARE
The following reflects the income and share data used in the calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share:
 
NOTE 26:
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURE OPERATIONS
(a) The Company has an interest in joint venture operations as follows:
For details of capital expenditure commitments and contingent liabilities relating to the joint venture operation refer to Notes 30 and 32 respectively.
 
NOTE 27: REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS
Amounts paid or due and payable to the auditors for:
Auditing the accounts and consolidated accounts of Portman Limited and the accounts for each of its controlled entities
The auditors received no other benefits.
The Company is satisfied that the other services provided by our auditors have not impaired their independence with regard to the audit services provided.
 
NOTE 28:
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES
 
 
NOTE 28: REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES (CONTINUED)
(ii) Remuneration of Specified Directors and Specified Executives
 
NOTE 28:
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES (CONTINUED)
(c) Remuneration options: Granted and vested during the year
No options were granted as equity compensation benefits to specified directors or specified executives during the financial year.
 
(d) Shares issued on exercise of remuneration options
 
NOTE 28:
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES (CONTINUED)
(e) Option holdings of Specified Directors and Specified Executives
(f) Shareholdings of Specified Directors and Specified Executives
All equity transactions with specified directors and specified executives other than those arising from the exercise of remuneration options have been entered into under terms and conditions no more favourable than those the entity would have adopted if dealing at arm's length.
 
NOTE 29:
EMPLOYEE ENTITLEMENTS
Portman Limited Employee Option Plans
Portman Limited previously had two employee option plans in existence. The Employee Option Plan (EOP) and the Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP). All options issued under the Portman Limited Employee Option Plan (EOP) have been exercised, have expired or have been cancelled. The Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) is the only plan now operating.
In addition, Portman has issued options called Directors Options that are not under, but are subject to the rules of, the ESOP and Non ESOP Options that are separate entirely from the ESOP.
Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (Unquoted Securities)
The Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) was adopted by the shareholders of the Company on 8 April 1998 to effectively replace the EOP referred to above. The ESOP contains Company performance hurdles that must be achieved before options become exercisable.
Under the ESOP options to subscribe for fully paid ordinary shares of the Company may be issued to participants. Eligible employees (being employees, directors or consultants to any Portman Group Company), subject to invitation to participate by the Board of Directors of the Company, may participate in the ESOP.
Each ESOP option may convert to one fully paid ordinary share. The total number of shares granted under this ESOP, excluding any exercised, lapsed or cancelled options, must not exceed 5% of the then issued share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis (notwithstanding that those shares may for any reason subsequently represent more than 5% of that capital).
Any ESOP option which has not been exercised before the fifth anniversary of its issue date automatically lapses.
The exercise price of each ESOP option will be not less than the weighted average of the last sale prices of the Company's fully paid ordinary shares on the Australian Stock Exchange over the five trading days on which a sale was effected immediately preceding the day on which the Board resolves to issue the ESOP option.
The issue price of shares issued on the exercise of ESOP options is recognised as issued capital at the date of issue.
 
NOTE 29:
EMPLOYEE ENTITLEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Information with respect to options granted under the employee share option plan, non employee share option plan and director option plan is summarized below:
(a) Options held at the beginning of the reporting period
The following table summarises information about options held by employees as at 1 January 2004:
 
NOTE 29:
EMPLOYEE ENTITLEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Options granted during the reporting period
(i) No options were granted by Portman Limited to employees during 2004.
(c) Options exercised
(i) The following table summarises information about options exercised by eligible option holders during the year ended 31 December 2004:
Fair value of shares issued during the reporting period is estimated to be the market price of shares of Portman Limited on the ASX as at close of trading on their respective dates.
 
NOTE 29:
EMPLOYEE ENTITLEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(d) Options held as at the end of the reporting date
The following table summarises information about options held by eligible option holders as at 31 December 2004:
Superannuation Commitments
The employer contributes in accordance with the Government Superannuation Guarantee Legislation.
 
NOTE 30:
COMMITMENTS FOR EXPENDITURE
Lease Commitments
Operating lease commitments contracted for at year end but not provided for in the financial statements
Operating leases are entered into as a means of acquiring access to office premises. Rental payments are generally fixed with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined. Outgoings related to the occupation of premises are included in these commitments.
Finance Lease Commitments
Finance leases are entered into as a means of funding the acquisition of some items of plant and equipment. Rental payments are fixed. Portman has guaranteed the performance of the finance lease.
Capital Commitments
Operating Contract Commitments
Mining Tenements
 
NOTE 31:
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Segment products and locations
The consolidated entity's operating companies are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services they provide, with each segment offering different products and serving different markets.
The Iron Ore segment produces and sells iron ore products to the world steel making industry. The Silicon segment was sold during 2003. The Corporate & Net Interest segment includes revenues and expenses associated with the investment portfolio that is managed by the Company and other revenues and expenses associated with general head office activities.
Geographically, the group operates only in Australia.
Segment accounting policies
The group generally accounts for intersegment sales and transfers as if the sales or transfers were to third parties at current market prices. Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the assets producing the revenues. Segment accounting policies are the same as the consolidated entity's policies described in Note 1. During the financial year, there were no changes in segment accounting policies that had a material effect on the segment information.
 
NOTE 31: SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED):
 
NOTE 31:
SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED):
 
NOTE 32:
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities not otherwise provided for in these financial statements are:
 
NOTE 32:
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
NOTE 33: FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
The following lines of credit with financial institutions were available at the year end:
The unused facilities at year end are available for any use within the Company. The $40,000,000 Multi-option facility is subject to annual review. The Multi-option facility is secured by a first ranking fixed and floating charge over all the assets and undertakings of the group, granted by Portman and all wholly owned entities.
During the year the Company secured long term funding from concluded long term sales agreements to assist with the funding of the 8Mpta expansion of the Koolyanobbing operation. As at 31 December 2004 USD 7,700,000 had been secured, due to be advanced in full by 31 March 2005.
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Objectives for Holding Derivative Financial Instruments
The Economic Entity uses derivative financial instruments to manage specifically identified foreign currency exposures. The Economic Entity is primarily exposed to the risk of adverse movements in the Australian dollar compared to the United States dollar. The primary objective of using derivative financial instruments is to reduce the volatility of earnings attributable to changes in AUD/USD, and to protect against undue adverse movements in these rates. The purposes for which specific derivative instruments are used are as follows:
Foreign currency options (uncommitted) and forward exchange contracts (committed) are purchased to hedge the Australian dollar value of US dollar receipts arising from both completed and forecasted export sales. Foreign currency hedging can commit the Economic Entity to sell US dollars at an agreed rate of exchange. All foreign currency options and forward exchange contracts are denominated in US dollars and contracted against Australian dollars. The Company hedges a portion of its anticipated future sales for periods up to three years (rolling monthly) from the end of the financial year. The Board of Directors has set the following guidelines for the portion of forecasted export sales that can be hedged:
All proposals for additional foreign exchange hedging outside the parameters stated above must be submitted to the Treasury Policy Committee, comprising an external independent advisor and five other committee members and then approved by the Portman Board of Directors.
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Interest Rate
Interest rate risk for the Company, together with effective interest rates as at 31 December 2004.
(c) Foreign Exchange
The following table summarises by currency the Australian dollar value of forward foreign exchange agreements and foreign currency options. Foreign currency amounts are translated at rates current at the reporting date. The buy' amounts represent the Australian dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase foreign currencies, and the sell' amount represents the Australian dollar equivalent of commitments to sell foreign currencies. Contracts, options, collars and convertible collars to sell foreign currency are entered into from time to time to offset sale obligations so as to maintain a properly hedged position.
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Notes:
 
(1) Collar range 0.6950 to 0.6500. Sell rate shown above is based on the cap rate.
(2) Collar range 0.6875 to 0.6400. Sell rate shown above is based on the cap rate.
(3) Convertible Collar range 0.7900 to 0.7396. Sell rate shown above is the year end spot rate which is within the collar range. The collars have a knockout on the floor ranging from 0.8450 to 0.8500
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
The Company is exposed to currency exchange rate risk through primary financial assets and forecast transactions reduced through derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, currency options, collars and convertible collars. The following table summarises by currency, in Australian dollars, the foreign exchange risk in respect of recognised financial assets and derivatives entered to hedge forecast transactions. Those financial assets and liabilities in which all amounts are denominated in Australian dollars are not included in these tables.
(d) Credit Risk Exposures
The credit risk amounts do not take into account the value of any collateral or security. Receivables due from major counter-parties are not normally secured by collateral, however most sales are covered by letters of credit. In addition the group policy requires that counter-parties meet certain high levels of credit worthiness and the credit worthiness of counter-parties is regularly monitored. The amounts of credit risk shown, therefore, do not reflect expected losses.
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(e) Net Fair Value Of Financial Assets And Liabilities
The carrying amounts and estimated net fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivatives) held at balance date are given below.
Short term instruments where carrying amounts approximate net fair values, are omitted. The net fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability is the amount at which the asset could be exchanged, or liability settled in a current transaction between willing parties after allowing for transaction costs.
The carrying amounts shown in the table are included in the Statement of Financial Position under the indicated captions.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the net fair value of each class of financial instrument:
 
NOTE 34:
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
(f) Hedges of Anticipated Future Transactions
The following table summarises deferred realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments entered as hedges of future anticipated purchases and sales, showing the periods in which they are expected to be recognised as income or expense. Deferred gains and losses are recognised as a component of the purchase or sale transaction when it occurs, or as other gains or losses when a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur. These deferred gains and losses are calculated as the mark to market position as at 31 December 2004. The unrealised gains and losses from a mark to market calculation are different to the unrealised gains and losses recorded in the Statement of Financial Position, which have been measured on a mark to spot basis in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 1012 "Foreign Currency Translation".
It should be noted that unrealised gains or losses for foreign exchange derivative instruments reflect changes in the underlying foreign exchange rates since the contracts were undertaken.
 
NOTE 35: NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
NOTE 36:
RELATED PARTY INFORMATION
Directors
The names of persons who were directors of Portman Limited during the year:
George F Jones Barry J Eldridge Fiona E Harris Richard Knight Malcolm H Macpherson Michael D Perrott
Details Of Share And Option Dealings With Directors And Their Director Related Entities
Details of share and option dealings with Directors and their Director related entities is disclosed in Note 28.
The Wholly Owned Group
The wholly owned group consists of Portman Limited and its controlled entities as set out in Note 11.
Transactions between Portman Limited and related parties in the wholly owned group during the year ended 31 December 2004 consisted of:
(a) Loan advances by Portman Limited; (b) Loans repaid to Portman Limited; (c) The payment of management fees by controlled entities; (d) Transfer of tax related balances; (e) Dividends from controlled entities; and (f) Guarantees by Portman Limited on behalf of controlled entities.
The above transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, except that there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans advanced by Portman Limited.
 
NOTE 36:
RELATED PARTY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Loans to and receivables from related entities are on an unsecured basis, non interest bearing and with no fixed terms for repayment.
Services
Director Related Entity Transactions
The company retains Oakvale Capital Limited to provide treasury services including foreign exchange and cash investment policy setting, product pricing and transactional assistance. The provision of these services is on normal commercial terms. The total amount spent in 2004 on these services was $72,223.
Mr George F Jones is a 10% shareholder in Oakvale Capital Limited.
Transactions with Other Related Parties
There were no other transactions with related parties.
 
NOTE 37:
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On March 31, 2005, Cliffs acquired approximately 68 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman. Through the close of the cash takeover offer on April 19, 2005, Cliffs acquired an additional 12 percent, increasing its ownership to approximately 80 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman. The consideration for each Portman share was $3.85 in cash.
On 31 January 2005 mining contractor Henry Walker Eltin Group Ltd (HWE) went into voluntary administration. Portman utilises the services of HWE for contract mining at its Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island Iron Ore projects. The Cockatoo Island Iron Ore project is an unincorporated joint venture between HWE and Portman. At the date of signing the financial statements Portman has not experienced any adverse impacts as a result of an administrator being appointed to HWE.
There has not been any other matter or circumstance that has arisen since the year-end that has affected or may significantly affect the operations of the Company, the results of those operations or the state of affairs of the Company in subsequent periods.
NOTE 38: GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (U.S. GAAP)
The consolidated financial statements of Portman are prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in Australia (Australian GAAP), which differ in certain respects from U.S. GAAP. The following is a summary of the adjustments to Portman's net profit, shareholders' equity, cash flows and earnings per share which would be required had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2004:
 
(i) Reconciliation of Net Profit
(ii) Reconciliation of shareholders' equity
 
(iii) Consolidated statement of cash flows
(iv) Earnings per Share
 
Material Adjustment Comments for Net Profit (i) and Shareholders Equity (ii)
(a) Rehabilitation
Under Australian GAAP, costs of rehabilitation work are provided for and treated as production costs. Costs are recognized prospectively over the life of mine based on production. The provision is to be applied against all rehabilitation costs, including reclamation, infrastructure removal and waste treatment.
Under U.S. GAAP, the costs of dismantling and removing an asset and restoring the site on which it is located is to be included as an element of asset cost with a corresponding provision being recorded. The asset and liability are initially recorded at their discounted value. The asset is then depreciated over its useful life and the provision is increased by the time value of money (accretion) up until the time of closure.
As a result of applying U.S. GAAP an adjustment to equity and net profit resulted.
(b) Hedging
Under Australian GAAP, unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses for specific hedges are deferred and recognized in the Statement of Financial Position for hedges that are effective and are expensed in the Statement of Financial Performance for hedges that are ineffective. The unrealized gain or loss is calculated with reference to the exchange rate ruling at the respective balance date.
Under U.S. GAAP, none of the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting and are therefore marked to market through the income statement.
As a result of applying U.S. GAAP, Portman has recorded its derivatives at fair value as opposed to the spot rate ruling at balance date. Given no hedge documentation existed at the inception of the hedge relationship, no hedges qualified for hedge accounting for U.S GAAP. Accordingly all hedges outstanding at period end have been marked to market and recorded in the Statement of Financial Performance.
(c) Exploration & Evaluation
Under Australian GAAP, costs incurred during exploration and evaluation related to an area of interest are accumulated. These costs are carried forward provided they are expected to be recouped through successful development, or by sale, or where exploration activities have not at balance date reached a stage to allow a reasonable assessment regarding the existence of economically recoverable reserves. If a decision is made to exploit the reserves and develop the area of interest, the costs are carried forward and amortized over the life of the area of interest.
Under U.S. GAAP exploration costs are expensed as incurred.
Evaluation costs consist of obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals, further resource definition and feasibility studies.
 
Under U.S. GAAP Portman is required to expense evaluation costs as incurred up until all final regulatory approvals have been granted. Evaluation costs incurred subsequent to this date are capitalised and amortised over the life of the area of interest.
As a result of applying U.S. GAAP the carrying amount of exploration costs and applicable evaluation costs have been written-off.
(d) Inventory
Under Australian GAAP a write back of previously written down inventory is permitted provided the inventory passes the lower of cost and net realisable value test.
Under U.S. GAAP inventory which has been written down cannot be subsequently written back.
As a result of applying U.S. GAAP inventory which had been previously written back under Australian GAAP has been excluded for the purposes of calculating inventory values under U.S. GAAP.
(e) Share option expense
Portman has employee share option plans in place. Under U.S. GAAP share option plans are expensed using a fair value model. There is no equivalent standard under Australian GAAP and hence no expense has been recognised in the Statement of Financial Performance for Australian GAAP.
(f) Business Combination - Angang
Under Australian GAAP the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired was allocated in part to certain exploration assets already owned by the Company. Under U.S. GAAP the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP the asset values are recorded gross of tax expense regardless of the manner in which the acquisition was structured for tax purposes. In addition under U.S. GAAP a deferred tax liability is recognised for the difference between the book basis and tax basis of the assets acquired. Under Australian GAAP as the excess was non-deductible no deferred tax liability was recognised.
(g) Finance Lease
 
Portman has a long term contract with the Esperance Port Authority for the provision of services by the Port for the management of stockpiles and loading of vessels. In addition, the port built certain infrastructure facilities for the specific use of Portman and charges Portman for this capital cost plus an applicable interest charge over the life of the contract.
Under U.S. GAAP the infrastructure facilities built by the Esperance Port Authority for Portman are considered to be a finance lease and hence has been accounted for accordingly. Australian GAAP contains no specific guidance on the treatment of service contracts such as the Esperance Port Authority and thus a finance lease was not recognised for the port assets. Instead the payments were expensed as incurred. The Australian GAAP accounts include note disclosure (Note 30) of the commitments under the Port Contract, which include commitments for the payment of the specific port assets.
(h) Depreciation & Amortisation
Under U.S. GAAP when a change in ore reserves is determined the depreciation and amortisation of assets on a production output basis is changed from that point forward. Under Australian GAAP the depreciation and amortisation can be changed from the beginning of the reporting period.
During the year Portman determined an increase in its ore reserves. As a result of applying U.S. GAAP the amount of depreciation and amortisation of assets on a production output basis has increased.
Adjustments to Consolidated Cash Flow (iii)
The principal differences between the Statement of Cash Flows prepared under Australian GAAP and the objectives and principles set out in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 95 "Statement of Cash Flows", relate to the treatment of exploration costs. Exploration costs, capitalized and presented as a cash flow from investing activities in Portman's Statement of Cash Flows, have been reclassified as a cash flow from operating activities in accordance with U.S. GAAP
.
Adjustments to Diluted Earnings Per Share (iv)
The principal difference between the Diluted Earnings Per Share amount prepared under Australian GAAP and U.S. GAAP relates to the inclusion of unrecognized compensation expense in the proceeds from issue of shares.
 
Report of Independent Auditors
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Portman Limited
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position of Portman Limited as of December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated statement of financial performance, changes in contributed equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included considerations of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Portman Limited at December 31, 2004 and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Australia, which differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (see note 38 to the consolidated financial statements).
Ernst & Young Perth, Australia July 20, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
On April 6, 2005, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cliffs" or the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to report that on March 31, 2005 Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Limited ("Cliffs Australia"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired approximately 68 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman Limited ("Portman"), a Western Australia-based iron ore mining and exploration company for $371.7 million. Through the close of the offer on April 19, 2005, Cliffs-Australia acquired an additional 12 percent for $62.1 million, increasing its ownership to approximately 80 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman. The consideration for each Portman Share was A$3.85 in cash. The assets consist primarily of land, mineral rights and iron ore reserves. The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared to give effect to the Company's acquisition of Portman using the purchase method of accounting and the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared as if the acquisition had been completed as of January 1, 2004 with respect to the statements of operations, and as of March 31, 2005 with respect to the balance sheet.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based upon the respective historical financial statements of Cliffs and Portman. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with: (i) the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 filed on April 29, 2005; (ii) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 filed on February 22, 2005; (iii) Portman's financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004, included in this Form 8-K/A as Exhibit 99.2; and (iv) the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements. The financial statements of Portman included in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A have been presented in Australian dollars and prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Australia, whereas all other amounts for Portman included herein have been presented in U.S. dollars and prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP").
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements include adjustments, which are based upon preliminary estimates, to reflect the allocation of the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities of Portman. The purchase price allocation presented herein is preliminary; final allocation of the purchase price will be based upon the results of third party valuations, which are currently in process but not yet complete. Accordingly, final purchase accounting adjustments may differ from the pro forma adjustments presented herein.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are intended for informational purposes only and, in the opinion of management, are not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations of the Company had the acquisition actually been effected as of the dates indicated, nor are they indicative of the Company's future financial position or results of operations.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not include potential cost savings from operating efficiencies or synergies that may result from the acquisition.
 
CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF MARCH 31, 2005
 
CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2005
 
CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and certain footnote disclosures normally included in the financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations; however management believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information not misleading.
On April 19, 2005, Cliffs Australia, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cliffs completed the purchase of 80.4 percent of the outstanding shares of Portman, a Western Australia-based independent iron ore mining and exploration company. The purchase price was $433.8 million. We funded the acquisition with existing cash and marketable securities and $175.0 million of interim borrowings under a new three-year $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The purchase price included $13.3 million of acquisition costs. Additionally, we incurred $9.8 million of foreign currency hedging costs related to this transaction which were charged to first quarter 2005 operations.
The acquisition was accounted for in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141"), whereby the total cost of the acquisition has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the effective date of the acquisition. The estimated purchase allocation is preliminary and is subject to revision. A third party valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is being conducted, and the final allocation will be made when completed.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations were prepared as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2004 and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of financial position was prepared as if the acquisition was completed on March 31, 2005. These statements do not purport to represent what our financial position and results of operations would actually have been had the acquisition in fact occurred on such dates or to project our financial position or results of operations for any future period. Furthermore, the allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to further revision.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared based on the annual audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and Portman for their respective years ended December 31, 2004 and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company and Portman for the three months ended March 31, 2005.
Included in Portman's pro forma results are mark-to-market before-tax losses of $5.1 million ($3.5 million after-tax) for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005 and $3.0
 
million ($2.1 million after-tax) for the year ended December 31, 2004 relating to foreign currency hedges.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements reflect an estimated total purchase price of $433.8 million. The purchase price is summarized as follows:
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price will be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Portman based upon their estimated fair value as of the date of the acquisition. The following represents the preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price as of March 31, 2005:
It is currently estimated that a significant portion of the purchase price will be allocated to iron ore reserves, which will be depleted on a units of production basis over the estimated reserve life. A final determination of the fair values may differ materially from preliminary estimates and will include management's consideration of a final valuation prepared by independent valuation specialists. Any final adjustments may change the allocations of purchase price, which could affect the fair value assigned to the assets and liabilities and could result in a change to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
The pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are as follows:


