FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20050511113715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On May 10, 2005, at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (the "Company"), Messrs. John C. Morley and Stephen B. Oresman did not stand for re-election in accordance with the retirement policy of the Company. A news release published May 10, 2005, regarding the results of the election of Directors at the Annual Meeting and the retirement of Messrs. Morley and Oresman is contained Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99(a) on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. On May 10, 2005, a press release was also published regarding the announcement of the promotion of Donald J. Gallagher to Executive Vice President of the Company, retaining his current roles as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This press release is contained in Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99(b) on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99(a) Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a news release dated May 10, 2005, captioned "Cleveland-Cliffs Announces Election of Directors" as filed herewith 99(b) Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a news release dated May 10, 2005, captioned "Donald J. Gallagher Promoted to Executive Vice President of Cleveland-Cliffs" as filed herewith
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

NEWS RELEASE
CLEVELAND, OHMay 10, 2005Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE: CLF) today announced that, at its Annual Meeting of Shareholders today, the following individuals were re-elected as Directors of the Company:
In accordance with the Company's retirement policy, Mr. John C. Morley and Mr. Stephen B. Oresman did not stand for re-election.
Commenting on the election results, John Brinzo, Chairman of the Board, said: "On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank John and Stephen for their many years of wise counsel and countless contributions. Each has played a significant role in Cliffs' development over the years and their guidance will be missed."
As a result of the two directors not standing for re-election, the Board is now made up of seven independent directors and two inside directors.
Cliffs' governance process is based on its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Company's website at .
http://www.cleveland-cliffs.com
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc operates a total of six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. The Company is majority owner of Portman Limited, the third-largest iron ore mining company in Australia, serving the Asian iron ore markets with direct-shipping fines and lump ore.
Contacts: Media: (216) 694-4870 Financial Community: (800) 214-0739 or (216) 694-5459
News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at
www.cleveland-cliffs.com

NEWS RELEASE
Cleveland, OHMay 10, 2005Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE: CLF) today announced that, effectively immediately, Donald J. Gallagher is promoted to executive vice president of the Company, retaining his current roles as chief financial officer and treasurer, with responsibilities for finance, financial reporting, accounting, financial planning, treasury and investor relations functions.
Mr. Gallagher, 52, began his career with Cleveland-Cliffs in 1981 as an ore sales representative in the commercial department and advanced through a number of increasingly responsible management positions until being named vice president-sales in August 1998. He was named Cliffs' senior vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer in July 2003 before assuming his current position.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Brinzo said: "Don's leadership and exceptional abilities have been instrumental in helping our Company with its strategy of transforming into a larger, international merchant mining company. We look forward to his ongoing contributions as Cliffs continues to build on the momentum of recent years."
A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Gallagher earned his bachelor's degree in Economics from Yale University and his MBA from the Weatherhead School of Business at Case Western Reserve University. He has served as chairman of the Cleveland Section of The American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers (A.I.M.E.), and is currently a member of Financial Executives International, the Iron and Steel Society of the A.I.M.E. and the American Iron and Steel Institute. He is also active in the local community, including serving on the board of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Cleveland.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc operates a total of six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. The Company is majority owner of Portman Limited, the third-largest iron ore mining company in Australia, serving the Asian iron ore markets with direct-shipping fines and lump ore.
This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Reference is made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, set forth in the Company's Annual Report for 2004, Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cleveland-Cliffs' website at:
www.cleveland-cliffs.com
.
Contacts: Media: (216) 694-4870 Financial Community: (800) 214-0739 or (216) 694-5459


