FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20050916142220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc published a news release dated September 14, 2005 as follows: Elmquist Appointed Chief Technical Officer of Cleveland-Cliffs Cleveland, OHSeptember 16, 2005Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE: CLF) today announced the appointment of Steven A. Elmquist to Vice President and Chief Technical Officera newly created position. In addition, effective today, he has also been elected an officer of the Corporation. Elmquist, 55, has been employed by Cliffs since 1990 and has progressed through a number of technical and operating roles with increasing responsibility. Formerly Assistant General Manager at Cliffs Hibbing and Northshore operations, Elmquist also served as General Manager of Cliffs reduced iron operation in Trinidad. Most recently, he has been overseeing Cliffs technical services function. Commenting on the promotion, Joseph Carrabba, Cliffs President and Chief Operating Officer, stated: "Steves leadersh ip and direction have improved the standing and effectiveness of the entire Cliffs Technical Group. As we strategically grow our Company, we are ever cognizant of the critical role technology will play going forward. Steves new role as the Companys first Chief Technical Officer will help ensure that Cliffs continues to develop and utilize state-of-the-art technical solutions." Mr. Elmquist earned his bachelors degree in mineral engineering from the University of Minnesota and a masters degree in engineering management from the Milwaukee School of Engineering. He and his wife, Missi, reside in Seven Hills, Ohio. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc operates a total of six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. The Company is majority o wner of Portman Limited, the third-largest iron ore mining company in Australia, serving the Asian iron ore markets with direct-shipping fines and lump ore. This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainty. Reference is made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, set forth in the Companys Annual Report for 2004, Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cleveland-Cliffs website. News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at http://www.cleveland-cliffs.com .
SOURCE: Cleveland-Cliffs Inc CONTACT: Media: 1-216-694-4870 Financial Community: 1-800-214-0739, or 1-216-694-5459 * * * * * *
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


