FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20060303140601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 28, 2006, Portman Limited ("Portman") filed with the Australian Stock Exchange its Annual Report for 2005 ("Annual Report"). The Annual Report is contained in Item 9.01 as exhibit 99(a) on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01. The information on this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                                   (c) Exhibits:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
(102 pages in total)
The Announcements Officer Australian Stock Exchange (Sydney) Limited Level 10 20 Bond Street SYDNEY NSW 2001
Dear Sir
ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Please find attached Portman Limited's Annual Report for 2005.
Yours faithfully
/s/ L. A. Kipfstuhl L. Kipfstuhl
COMPANY SECRETARY
 
2
 
Level 11 The Quadrant 1 William Street Perth Western Australia 6000 Telephone: 61 8 9426 3333 Facsimile: 61 8 9426 3344 Website:
REGISTERED OFFICE
www.portman.com.au
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Woodside Plaza, Level 14 240 St Georges Terrace Perth WA 6000 Telephone: 61 8 9365 7000
AUDITORS
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Limited 150 St Georges Terrace Perth WA 6000 Telephone: 61 8 9482 6325
BANKERS
Blake Dawson Waldron Exchange Plaza, Level 32 2 The Esplanade Perth WA 6000 Telephone: 61 8 9366 8000
SOLICITORS
Advanced Share Registry Services 110 Stirling Highway Nedlands WA 6009 Telephone: 61 8 9389 8033
SHARE REGISTRY
Oakvale Capital Limited Level 3 50 Colin Street West Perth WA 6005 Telephone: 61 8 9460 5300
TREASURY ADVISER
Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS John S. Brinzo
Richard R. Mehan
William R. Calfee
Donald J. Gallagher
David H. Gunning
Malcolm H. Macpherson
Michael D. Perrott
General Manager  Marketing General Manager  Exploration General Manager  Finance & Administration and Company Secretary General Manager  Operations General Manager  Projects & Engineering
SENIOR MANAGEMENT Shigeru Fujikawa
Ron G. Graber
Leo A. Kipfstuhl
Phil S. Nolan
Kevin N. Watters
      
 
 
CORPORATE
MARKETING
OPERATIONS
Koolyanobbing Iron Ore Project
Cockatoo Island Project
      
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 2005
Dear Shareholder
It gives me great satisfaction to present the Portman 2005 Annual Report, in what has been an eventful and very successful year for your company. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, an International Mining Company completed the acquisition of over 80% of the outstanding stock of your company and a seamless transition was completed.
Performance
On behalf of the Board, it is pleasing to report that during the current year, your company achieved a record profit of $84.2 million, against $32.2 million in the prior year.
The record result was achieved primarily as the result of the unprecedented 71.5% increase in annual benchmark iron ore prices. A solid performance at the Koolyanobbing operation which again saw record tonnes produced and sold during the year. Unfortunately, strong upward pressure on the majority of input costs has been a feature throughout the year and shows no apparent sign of abating.
The Northern Tenements of Windarling and Mt Jackson at Koolyanobbing became major sources of plant feed during the year. Total production from the Koolyanobbing operation during the year was 5.8 million tonnes, a 12% increase on last years production of 5.2 million tonnes. Total sales from the Koolyanobbing operation were 5.8 million tonnes, an 8% increase on last years sales of 5.4 million tonnes.
The Cockatoo Island project increased production and sales compared to the prior year and operated at design operating levels. The Stage 2 of the seawall was completed and the small slip in the seawall that occurred in September 2004 was repaired. Cockatoo averaged two shipments per month for the year, with two months achieving three ships loaded.
Expansion and Growth
Work on the expansion of the Koolyanobbing operation to 8 million tonnes per annum continued during the year, but significant skills shortages have continued to delay completion until first quarter 2006. Coupled with below plan rail movements during the last quarter 2005, production and sales are expected at a 6.0mtpa rate during the first quarter. The expansion expenditures of approximately $80 million, has increased significantly versus the original estimate of $55 million. This cost overrun is not unlike those being experienced on major projects by other companies in Australia. The final tie in work and start up activities will be completed during the first quarter and stabilisation of operations will follow.
Corporate Activity
On 12 January 2005, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, announced a A$3.40 per share cash takeover offer for Portman Limited which was further increased to A$3.85 per share on 25 February 2005. On 22 March 2005, Cleveland-Cliffs announced they had received acceptances which had increased their voting power to more than 50% and on 19 April 2005, when the offer finally closed, acceptances had been received for 80.45% of the shares on issue.
Final Dividend
After completion of the Cleveland-Cliffs acquisition, your Board met four times in 2005 since the acquisition and reviewed the financial status of the company and took no actions on dividends.
      
 
 
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT 2005
Corporate Governance
Regulatory focus continues to play an evolving part of our business with the "Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Recommendations" established by the ASX Corporate Governance Council and published by the ASX in March 2003, being adopted during the 2003 calendar year. As part of our Corporate Governance practices, during the year your Board reviewed and approved revisions to the following policies: Code of Conduct, Shareholder Communications, Market Disclosures and Securities Trading. Copies of the policies are available on the Company website.
In addition, the Board formed a Minority Shareholder Interests Committee composed of the non-executive independent directors to deal with any issues effecting minority shareholders.
Organisation
During the year, Mr George Jones, Mr. Barry Eldridge, Ms. Fiona Harris and Mr. Richard Knight resigned from the Board. I want to thank them for their devoted service to the Company during their time on the Board.
In April 2005, the writer, Mr. David Gunning, Mr. William Calfee and Mr. Donald Gallagher all of Cleveland-Cliffs joined the Board. Mr. Richard Mehan was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Michael Perrott and Mr. Malcolm Macpherson who will remain on your board as independent non-executive directors.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to acknowledge and thank the management team and employees for their significant contribution during the year which allowed your company to achieve a number of significant milestones.
Shareholders are invited to visit our website () or contact the Managing Director, Richard Mehan or Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, Leo Kipfstuhl at any time to obtain further information about Portman.
www.portman.com.au
Yours sincerely
/s/ John S Brinzo
John Brinzo
CHAIRMAN
      
 
 
MARKETING
Benchmark iron ore prices increased by a record 71.5%. This was driven by the strength of ore demand by the Chinese steel industry and a recognition of the high cost brownfields expansions required to meet future demand.
Koolyanobbing sales volumes increased 8% over the same period in 2004 as the first full year of Portman's suite of long term sales arrangements were concluded. Cockatoo Island sales increased 65% from 2004.
Western Australia
KOOLYANOBBING IRON ORE PROJECT (PORTMAN 100%)
Operations
The Koolyanobbing Iron Ore Project is located 425 kilometres east of Perth and approximately 50 kilometres north-east of the town of Southern Cross. All of the ore mined is transported by rail to the Port of Esperance, 578 kilometres to the south.
2005 saw the first full year of production from the new mining areas at Windarling and Mt. Jackson, located 80 and 100 kilometres north of Koolyanobbing respectively.
Sales in 2005 of 5,793 thousand tonnes represented an increase of 8% over the previous year.
Koolyanobbing Statistics (000's tonnes)
Project Development
Construction activity on infrastructure supporting expansion of capacity to 8 million tonnes per annum, continued throughout the year. Shortages of skilled labour, services and materials have resulted in delays and significant over budget costs. Project construction costs have increased to approximately $80 million with the cost of fabricated construction steels having more than doubled over the past two years.
With the majority of construction now complete, the project timeframe is for capacity at an 8 million tonnes per annum rate to be achieved by the end of the first quarter in 2006.
      
 
 
Western Australia
COCKATOO ISLAND IRON ORE PROJECT (PORTMAN 50%)
Operations
Cockatoo Island is located off the Kimberley Coast of Western Australia, approximately 3,000 kilometres to the north of Perth.
Portman gained access to high-grade, low impurity haematite ore at Cockatoo Island under an agreement with its previous operator, BHP, in 1999. This ore had not been mined because of its location under old infrastructure.
In August 2000, Portman commenced production of Cockatoo premium fines ore in a 50/50 joint venture with contracting group, Henry Walker Eltin, with the first shipment loaded in September 2000.
Production moved into the Stage 2 area of the Seawall Project during the year. No further wall slippage issues occurred and de-watering rates were consistent with the operating plan.
Output for 2005 totalled 1,142 thousand tonnes.
Reserves available under the current Seawall Project are expected to be mined out during the first quarter of 2007. Studies are underway to extend the project life by accessing additional ore to the east of the existing orebody. A decision on the feasibility of an extension project will be made during the first half of 2006.
Cockatoo Island Iron Ore Project Statistics (000's tonnes)
Figures above are quoted at 100%.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
Portman achieved significant progress in environmental management during 2005. As production activity from the new operations at Mt Jackson and Windarling consolidated, the emphasis in environmental management shifted from control of mine establishment and construction activities to implementation and ongoing development of the Koolyanobbing Project Environmental Management System and conservation initiatives.
The key elements of a number of environmental management plans that were required under government approvals were consolidated into one system manual in 2005. The environmental management system was checked by external auditors in October 2005 and determined to be on schedule to achieve certification to the ISO14001 Standard within the following 18 months.
Research into the genetics and ecology of the rare plant species that was impacted by the approved development of a mine pit at Windarling progressed in 2005. Studies into the genetics of the population has revealed some structuring, or clumping, in certain characteristics of plants across the range which is beginning to yield valuable insights into the breeding methods of the species and movement of pollinators between plants. The plant is readily propagated from cuttings, though establishment from seed is proving more difficult. An objective of Portman is to establish a population of the species away from mining operations, which, together with the plants remaining at Windarling, will enhance the resilience of the species. An understanding of the genetics of means the optimum cross section of genotypes can be employed in the translocation project.
Tetratheca paynterae,
Tetratheca paynterae
      
 
 
The Windarling site endured one of the longest and driest periods in the last 30 years from August 2004 to May 2005, with only 58 mm rainfall. This extended dry period resulted in the deaths of plants across the population. The frequency of plant mortality was greatest nearest the mining operation, and after detailed investigations it was concluded that mining had exacerbated the drought effect, most probably through dust and altered exposure to prevailing winds. Of 457 plant deaths across the population, an estimated 40  44 deaths within 15 metres of the mine face were attributed to the cumulative effect of drought and changes due to mining. The remaining population in August 2005 was 5,317 mature plants, and 24 seedlings.
Tetratheca paynterae
Further surveys extended the understanding of the distribution of the endangered Malleefowl in the vicinity of the mining operations at Mt Jackson. Five active Malleefowl nests have been recorded by late 2005  suggesting the presence of five breeding pairs, several of which are within a conservation area adopted by Portman. Baseline monitoring as part of a long term feral predator control programme to be undertaken in partnership with the lead state conservation management agency commenced in 2005. Baiting to reduce the numbers of feral cats, dogs and foxes is planned to commence in 2007. Monitoring will be continued to determine the response of native fauna, including Malleefowl, to reduced levels of predation.
Portman ensures that vegetation in every area planned for clearing as part of mine development is surveyed by a botanist prior to disturbance. Information from these surveys, and broader regional surveys, have contributed significantly to the knowledge of the distribution and abundance of plants of conservation significance across the region. In 2005 the status of several plant species was amended primarily on the basis of data provided by Portman.
Several key environmental approvals were obtained in 2005, including approval to expand the size of a waste dump at Windarling (following a substantial increase in the size of the reserve in the W2 orebody), and approval for an increase in iron ore production from 6 to 8 million tonnes per annum.
Sound mine planning and mine development has enabled the rehabilitation of small areas of several waste dumps within 2 years of initial ground disturbance. This progressive' rehabilitation has several substantial benefits: it minimises the liability for closure at the end of mine life; provides for earlier recovery of performance bonds required by the State; and optimises revegetation performance through the use of fresh topsoil and vegetative mulch. Work to enhance rehabilitation performance is ongoing.
The Koolyanobbing Project Community Reference Group, comprising local government, pastoralist, indigenous and conservation stakeholders, sat twice in 2005. In addition, members received four updates on the project during the year. The group inspected the Windarling and Mt Jackson operations in September 2005. All of the Koolyanobbing Project operations were opened to the general public for a day in October 2005.
Sound improvement in the environmental management of mining operations at Cockatoo Island was achieved in 2005. Rehabilitation works were completed on several disturbed areas of the island. Studies into the marine ecology adjacent to the mining operations were continued. A plan for the closure of mining operations was developed during the year. Part of the closure plan is an innovative proposal to convert the seawall constructed to enable mining below sea level into a marina after the cessation of mining operations. The closure plan, including the marina proposal, has been well received by regulatory agencies, and the majority of stakeholders, in consultation completed to date.
      
 
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Koolyanobbing Project
During 2005 four Lost Time Injuries ("LTI's") were recorded regrettably including one fatality. A driver for BGC Contracting Pty Ltd ("BGC"), Portman's haulage contractor, was involved in a collision on the haul road between the Northern Tenements and Koolyanobbing. Portman and BGC worked closely with the Western Australian Mine Inspection authorities in reviewing all aspects of the accident. Portman has approved a capital appropriation of $2.9 million to widen the haul road as a proactive step to improve safety on the haul road.
The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate ("LTIFR") for the year was 4.0 which is slightly below the metalliferous open pit mining industry average of 4.1.
Cockatoo Island Joint Venture Project
Portman does not have company employees working on this site. HWE (our 50% Joint Venture partner) is responsible for mining and operations on the island. During 2005 two LTI's were incurred resulting in a LTIFR of 7.29 for the year. The most serious injury was acid burns to the face and eyes of a contractor, who has since made a full recovery.
Health and Safety Policy
Portman's Health and Safety Policy is set out in detail in the Corporate Governance Statement (see page 18 of this Annual Report).
It remains our focussed objective to continuously improve our safety performance through systematic programmes to minimise the risk to the well being of our company employees and our contractors employees working on our mine sites.
EXPLORATION REVIEW
2005 exploration activity has concentrated on the following objectives:
Koolyanobbing Project
2005 exploration activity at the Koolyanobbing Project comprised geologic mapping and a combination of in-fill and step-out reverse circulation drilling totalling 21,800 meters in 250 drill holes.
The primary objective of drilling programmes at the Koolyanobbing C and the Mt Jackson J1 deposits was to improve confidence in previous mineral resource estimates. The programmes succeeded in improved confidence in both the total tonnes and distribution of grade within the deposits. At the C deposit, a deeper zone of mineralisation associated with a drag fold east of the main body of mineralisation was identified that requires further drill evaluation in 2006. At the J1 deposit, which is the single largest undeveloped Koolyanobbing Project resource, a 5.0 Mt increase in Indicated Resources was achieved.
      
 
 
The balance of reverse circulation drilling undertaken in 2005 has targeted both satellite prospects and extensions to known resources. At Koolyanobbing the F North prospect continued to be drilled at year-end evaluating the continuity and grade of lenses of goethite mineralization. Along the Mt Jackson Range both the J4 prospect, located 20km east of the Mt Jackson mine site and the J5 prospect a further 20km east were evaluated by reverse circulation drilling. The J5 prospect drilling produced a number of encouraging intersections. A follow-up drill program at J5 in 2006 will aim at generating a JORC-compliant mineral resource estimate. At Windarling, step-out drilling targeting extensions to the main mineralisation at both the W1 and W4 deposits was completed. Information from this drilling will be incorporated into updated resource models and estimates for these deposits in 2006.
During 2005 regional exploration targets proximal to the Koolyanobbing Project were acquired. In the Perrinvale area 100km northeast of the Windarling mining operations, two exploration licences were granted covering a 45km strike length of banded iron-formation that has seen only limited iron ore exploration. Reconnaissance mapping for iron mineralisation on these tenements will be pursued during 2006. In the Mt Finnerty area located 65 kilometres east of the Koolyanobbing Range, an iron ore joint venture agreement with Reed Resources was executed in the 3rd quarter of 2005. The geology of the Mt Finnerty project area consists of the north-westerly trending Watt Hills greenstone belt containing lenses of variably mineralized and lateritised banded iron formation over a 30 kilometre strike length. During 2005 reconnaissance mapping and outcrop sampling was conducted over the northern 20 kilometres of the project area. Although individual grab samples up to 64% Fe were produced, their significance in terms of target size and grade is not possible due to scarcity of outcrop. A reconnaissance reverse circulation drill program will target the most promising Mt Finnerty targets in 2006.
Cockatoo Island
A review of potential auxiliary sources of iron mineralisation to extend the Cockatoo Island operation beyond 2007 was conducted during 2005. Evaluations included a metallurgical test program aimed at beneficiating low-grade mineralisation occurring east of the present pit. Further evaluations at extending the Cockatoo Island operation will be pursued in 2006.
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
Koolyanobbing Project
As at 31 December 2005 the in-situ Mineral Resources for the Koolyanobbing Project, incorporating the mineral deposits at Mt Jackson and Windarling stood at 151.9 million tonnes at 62.01% iron, a net increase of 2.4 million tonnes in comparison to the period ended 31 December 2004. The 2005 Mineral Resource statement reflects:
In-situ resource estimates have been completed for all the Koolyanobbing Project deposits by Golder Associates and classified in accordance with the JORC Code.
      
 
In-situ Mineral Resources  Portman Limited, Koolyanobbing Project
 
 
Cockatoo Island (50% Portman)
As at 31 December 2005 the Cockatoo Island Mineral Resources for Portman Limited (50%) stood at 1.7 million tonnes at 68.14% iron. The in-situ resource estimate was completed by SRK Consulting in 2003 in accordance with the JORC Code. The total Cockatoo Island Mineral Resource stands at 3.5 million tonnes (50% Portman Limited, 50% HWE Contracting Pty Ltd).
 
Mineral Resource  Cockatoo Island
 
Ore Reserves
 
The Mineral Resources at Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island have been classified as Measured, Indicated and Inferred in accordance with the JORC guidelines, based on the assessment of geological continuity, drill data density and grade continuity.
The Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource has been used to determine the Proved and Probable Ore Reserve by applying appropriate optimisation and scheduling techniques and is based on Portman's current and forecast operating cost and product specification criteria. The calculation in this manner complies with the JORC code.
 
The information in this report that relates to Exploration Results, Mineral Resources or Ore Reserves is based on information compiled by Mr R G Graber, who is a Member of the American Institute of Professional Geologists (AIPG), a Recognised Overseas Professional Organisation' included in a list promulgated by the ASX from time to time. Mr Graber is an employee of Cliffs Reduced Iron Management Company, a subsidiary of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, and is seconded to the company. Mr Graber has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which he is undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the "Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves'. Mr Graber consents to the inclusion in this report of the matters based on his information in the form and context in which it appears.
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
The Portman Board continues to be a strong advocate of good corporate governance and is very focused on fulfilling its responsibilities to all of its legitimate stakeholders.
The Board has adopted the "Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Recommendations" established by the ASX Corporate Governance Council and published by ASX in March 2003. The Company has created a corporate governance section on its website which sets out in full detail the various charters, policies and codes of conduct that have been adopted by the Board to ensure compliance with the "best practice recommendations" referred to above.
Role and Structure of the Board
The role of the Board is to chart and monitor the direction, strategies and financial objectives of the Company and to monitor compliance with regulatory requirements and ethical standards. The Managing Director is responsible to the Board for the day to day management of the Company.
In accordance with ASX Principle 1 the Board has established a Board Charter (see website) which sets out in detail the responsibilities and functions of the directors as distinct from management.
The composition of the Board recognises the majority ownership position of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cliffs"). It is considered appropriate that Directors associated with the controlling shareholder constitute a majority of Directors on the Board. Notwithstanding this, the Directors discharge their duties in the interests of all the shareholders.
The Board is comprised of a Chairman, five non-executive directors and one executive director (the Managing Director). Below is a table setting out pertinent details regarding the tenure of each director at the date of this report.
Details of the professional skills and experience of each of the directors are set out in the Directors' Report  see page 19  21.
Each Director has the right to seek independent professional advice at the Company's expense. However, prior approval of the Chairman is required which is not to be unreasonably withheld.
The Board has implemented a process for the annual reviews of its overall performance, consistent with ASX Principle 8.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
Director Independence
The Board of Directors does not consist of a majority of "independent" Directors. This is not in compliance with ASX Principle 2.1. As stated above the composition of the Board recognises Cliffs' majority shareholding. The Directors are required to, and do, act in accordance with their statutory duties of good faith and for proper purpose. All related party transactions, including those with Cliffs have been determined to be in the interests of the Company.
As shown in the table above, the Company's Chairman is not an independent director, which is contrary to ASX Principle 2.2. The Chairman is also the Chairman and CEO of Cliffs, and he has been appointed as Portman's Chairman because of Cliffs' majority ownership position discussed above.
Audit and Risk Management Committee
In accordance with ASX Principles 4 and 7, the Board has established and adopted an Audit and Risk Management Committee Charter which has been posted to the corporate governance section of our website. A Risk Management Policy has also been adopted and posted to the Website.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee is appointed by the Board and is comprised of three non-executive Directors of whom two are required to be independent. The present members of the Audit Committee are Mr. Perrott (Chair), Mr. Gunning and Mr. Macpherson.
The Committee provides a formal structure for reviewing Portman's financial statements, accounting policies, control systems, risk management practices and liaising with external and internal auditors.
The Committee advises the Board of any matters that might have a significant impact on the financial condition of Portman and has the authority to investigate any matters with the terms of reference, having full access to the information and resources of Portman to fulfil its function. Related party transactions are considered by the Committee and where appropriate, the independent members of the Committee only.
The Committee reviews compliance with the Corporation Act, the requirements of the Australian Stock Exchange and other regulatory requirements.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
In December 2003, the Board adopted a Nomination and Remuneration Committee Charter (see website) that stipulates the composition of the committee and the duties and responsibilities of the committee members.
The members of this committee at the date of this report are Mr. Brinzo (Chair), Mr. Perrott and Mr. Calfee.
Treasury Policy Committee
In December 2004, the Board adopted a Treasury Policy Committee Charter (see website) to assist the Board and management in relation to foreign exchange, borrowings and investment dealings within Portman.
The members of this Committee are Mr. Gallagher (Chair), Mr. Gunning, Mr Hunt (Portman's Financial Controller) and Mr. Cunningham (from Oakvale, Portman's external treasury advisor).
Minority Shareholders Interests Committee
In April 2005, the Board appointed a new Committee to review issues related to the interests of the minority shareholders, including related party transactions. The members of the Committee are Mr. M Perrott (Chair) and Mr. M Macpherson.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
Conduct and Ethics
The Board has adopted the Code of Conduct produced by the Australian Institute of Company Directors (AICD) to guide directors and promote high ethical and professional standards. The Board also endorsed the Guidelines accompanying that Code.
The Company has also established and the Board has endorsed a Code of Conduct for all employees. This code aims to develop a consistent understanding of, and approach to, the desired standards of conduct and behaviour of employees of Portman in carrying out their roles for the Company. Through this code Portman seeks to encourage and develop a culture of professionalism, honesty and responsibility in order to maintain and enhance our reputation as a valued employer, business operator and good corporate citizen.
The Board Code of Conduct and The Employees Code of Conduct are in accordance with ASX Principles 3 and 10 respectively and have been posted on our website.
Securities Trading
The Board has adopted a Securities Trading Policy (see website) that applies to directors and all employees. Under this policy all directors and employees of the Company are prohibited from trading in the Company's securities (ie share and options) if they are in possession of "inside information" and during certain periods prior to the announcement of quarterly, half yearly, full year results and the holding of the AGM. Trading by Restricted Persons (as defined in the Policy) requires clearance from:
This policy is in accordance with ASX Principle 3.
Financial Reporting and Risk Management
In accordance with ASX Principle 4 the financial statements and notes thereto contained in this Annual Report involved both the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer giving a sign off, to the best of their knowledge and belief, that the Company's financial report presents a true and fair view, in all material respects, of the Company's financial condition and operating results and is in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
In respect to Risk Management, the Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer are required to inform the Board annually in writing that:
In order for the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer to make this attestation, the Company utilised management questionnaires covering compliance, risk management and matters affecting the financial statements.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
Market Disclosure
In accordance with ASX Principle 5 the Board has established and adopted a Market Disclosure Policy (see website) to outline the disclosure obligations of the Company as required by ASIC, ASX, the Corporations Act and the ASX Listing Rules. The Company is committed to:
Continuous disclosure is included as an agenda item at all meetings of the Board. Any issue that arises which may need to be disclosed is to be immediately reported to the disclosure officer.
The Company Secretary has been appointed as the Company's disclosure officer responsible for implementing and administering this policy.
Shareholder Communication
In accordance with ASX Principle 6 the Board has established and adopted a Shareholder Communication Policy (see website) to ensure shareholders are provided with current, relevant information and that they are empowered through effective communication.
Portman places considerable importance on effective communication with shareholders and has and will continue to require the presence of the external auditor to attend the Annual General Meetings and answer questions about the conduct of the audit and the preparation and content of the audit report.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Portman is committed to ensuring that diligent environmental management is an integral part of business planning and operations, and strives to achieve high standards of environmental performance in all of its activities. Portman will satisfy all relevant legislation and regulations, and continue the development and implementation of a structured Environmental Management System to ensure responsible and proactive environmental management.
The Board is responsible for the Environmental Governance of the Group including the strategic direction, risk assessment, monitoring systems and review processes. The effective implementation of procedures in the Environmental Management System ensures the proper discharge of this responsibility.
All operations managers are required to identify significant environmental risks and applicable environmental legislation to the Board. Periodically and as required, operations managers are required to confirm compliance with all relevant legislation and report the status of identified environmental risks.
Reviews or audits are conducted over all operations to monitor performance and confirm compliance with required standards. These reviews or audits are performed by appropriately trained and authorised
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
individuals, internal and external to the organisation. Any substantive matters are reported to the Board. Issues arising from these exercises are monitored to ensure the completion of appropriate corrective or preventative actions.
Considerable progress in the implementation of environmental research and management programmes was achieved during the year. No material breaches of environmental regulations or legislation occurred at Portman's operations in 2005.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Portman considers the health and safety of all people associated with its operations as one of its highest corporate priorities and is committed to achieving a healthy and accident free work environment.
It is Portman's objective to continuously improve our safety performance through the implementation of systematic programmes to minimize the risk to the wellbeing of its employees, contractors and customers. In so doing Portman will be acting in the best long term interests of the organisation.
The absolute minimum standard of performance Portman will accept is compliance with all applicable statutory requirements and regulations. During 2005, an independent audit was completed by an external consultant. The audit tested compliance with the Department of Industry and Resources, Safety, Health and Environmental Audit Guidelines, The Mines Safety and Inspection Act 1994, Mines Safety and Inspection Regulations 1995, and relevant Standards and Codes of Practice. The audit found Portman to be in compliance with regulatory requirements. A list of improvements were also identified and are being actioned by the Company.
Portman's health and safety measures will be integrated with its operations, properly resourced and communicated, and supported with training and awareness programmes.
Portman recognises that to achieve its aims will require clear leadership, and acceptance of collective and individual responsibilities towards providing a safe workplace.
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
The directors of Portman Limited submit herewith the annual financial report of the company for the financial year ended 31 December 2005. In order to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, the directors report as follows:
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Non-Executive Director
William R Calfee  Age: 59
Mr Calfee is executive vice president-commercial of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, with responsibilities for all Cliffs commercial activities.
Mr. Calfee joined Cleveland-Cliffs in 1972 as an ore sales representative. He assumed increasingly responsible positions in the commercial area before being named vice president-ore sales in 1983. In 1986, Mr. Calfee was named executive vice president and chief operating officer. Following the acquisition of Pickands Mather & Co. and further corporate restructuring, he became senior executive vice president in 1989 and assumed his current position in October 1995.
An officer in the U.S. Navy, Mr. Calfee received his Bachelor of Arts from Williams College, and completed the Advanced Management program at the Graduate School of Business at Harvard University.
Mr. Calfee is a director of Ideastream (public television and public radio) in Cleveland, Ohio.
Non-Executive Director
Donald J Gallagher  Age: 53
Mr Gallagher is executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer of the Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. His responsibilities include finance, financial reporting, accounting, financial planning, treasury and investor relations functions.
Mr. Gallagher joined Cliffs in 1981 as an ore sales representative in the commercial department. He has held various management positions within Cliffs, and was named vice president-sales in August 1998. A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Mr. Gallagher earned his bachelor's degree in Economics from Yale University and an MBA from Case Western Reserve University.
Mr. Gallagher has served as chairman of the Cleveland Section of the A.I.M.E. and is currently a member of Financial Executives International, the Iron and Steel Society of the A.I.M.E., and the American Iron and Steel Institute. He is also active in the local community, including serving on the board of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Cleveland.
Non-Executive Director
David H Gunning  Age: 63
Mr Gunning joined Cleveland-Cliffs Inc as vice chairman in 2001. His responsibilities include business development and the execution of Cleveland-Cliffs' corporate strategy.
Prior to joining Cliffs, Mr. Gunning was a consultant and private investor. Before that, he was president and chief executive officer of Capitol American Financial Corporation, which was sold to Conseco, Inc., in 1997. For more than 25 years, Mr. Gunning was with the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue (now known as Jones Day), where he last served as the partner in charge of the firm's worldwide corporate practice.
A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Mr. Gunning earned a Bachelor of Arts from Cornell University and received his law degree from Harvard University.
He is a director of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, Lincoln Electric Holdings, Development Alternatives, Inc., and MFS Funds. He is a trustee of the Chicago Theological Seminary, Playhouse Square Foundation, and the College of Wooster.
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Non-Executive Director
Malcolm H Macpherson  Age: 61
Mr Macpherson (B.Sc, FAusIMM, FTSE) has had extensive experience in the mining and minerals industry at both the operational and executive level. He is a director of Minara Resources Limited and Titanium Corporation Inc and Chairman of Azumah Resources Limited and Cooperative Research Centre for Sustainable Resource Processing. He is also Chairman of the not for profit, Independent Living Centre of W.A. (inc) and a member of the senate of Murdoch University.
Non-Executive Director
Michael D Perrott  Age: 60
Mr Perrott (B.Com, FAIM) has been involved in industries associated with construction, contracting, mining and land development since 1969. He is currently Chairman of Port Bouvard Limited, GME Resources Limited, Bone Medical Limited and Canning Vale Weaving Mills. He is a member of the Board of Notre Dame University and a council member of the National Advisory Council for Suicide Prevention and the State Ministerial Council for Suicide Prevention.
Company Secretary
Leo A Kipfstuhl  Age: 64
Mr Kipfstuhl is General Manager Finance and Administration and Company Secretary. He joined Cleveland-Cliffs in 1963 and has over 40 years experience in accounting, finance and corporate development. Prior to his assignment to Portman, he was Director  Corporate Development for Cliffs and from 1999 to 2002 he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Cliffs and Associates Limited, a Cliffs' subsidiary in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Directorships of other listed companies
 
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
 
Notes
(1) resigned 6 April 2005
(2) resigned 12 April 2005
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes
(1) appointed 12 April 2005
      
 
\
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Included in the key management personnel above are the 5 highest remunerated executives of the Consolidated Entity. The Parent Entity does not employ any executives.
Remuneration Policies
Non-executive directors
The Company's non-executive directors receive only fees (including statutory superannuation) for their services and the reimbursement of reasonable expenses. The fees paid to the Company's non-executive directors reflect the demands on, and responsibilities of, those directors. They do not receive any retirement benefits (other than compulsory superannuation). The advice of independent remuneration consultants is taken to establish that the directors' fees are in line with market standards.
A directors' fee pool limit of $600,000 per annum was approved by shareholders at the Annual General meeting in 2004 and is currently utilised to a level of $160,000 per annum. This fee pool is only available to non-executive directors as Board membership is taken into account in determining the remuneration paid to executive directors as part of their normal employment conditions. The Board members from Cleveland-Cliffs Inc receive no fees from Portman and are reimbursed for travel expenses for attending Board Meetings. The two independent non-executive directors currently receive $80,000 per annum each. In 2005 Mr. Perrott received additional compensation for the period when acting as Chairman. In 2004 Mr Macpherson received additional compensation for performing business development consulting on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Managing Director and Other Key Management Personnel
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policies for the group, including those affecting executive directors and other key management personnel.
The committee may seek appropriate external advice to assist its decision making. Remuneration policies and practices are directed at attracting, motivating and retaining quality people. Key principles in setting remuneration include shareholder value, market competitiveness and internal relativity and equity.
Cleveland-Cliffs has seconded two key management personnel, Messrs. Graber and Kipfstuhl, to Portman and their costs are charged to the company under a Master Services Agreement executed by the two companies. This results in Portman effectively paying the salary and bonus entitlements of these two individuals in accordance with the terms of the service agreements that they have with a subsidiary of Cliffs. These agreements are governed by the compensation policies of the parent company, which are generally consistent with Portman's policies.
The remuneration policy for executive directors and other key management personnel has three main components: fixed remuneration, annual incentive and long term incentive.
Fixed Remuneration
Executive directors and other key management personnel receive fixed remuneration including a base salary (inclusive of statutory superannuation) and are provided with a parking bay. Mr. Nolan is provided with a fully maintained company vehicle. They are also provided with a service agreement of no fixed length (except for Mr Fujikawa whose service agreement is renewed annually) that provides them with 6 months (previously 12 months) base salary in the event of redundancy. The Managing Director and Messrs. Waters and Nolan have service agreements containing 12 month payout clauses in the event of redundancy. The two seconded key management personnel do not have redundancy clauses.
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Short Term Incentive (STI)
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee links the nature and amount of executive remuneration to the Company's financial and operational performance. The Managing Director and other key management personnel participate in a plan which provides cash incentives for meeting Key Performance Indicators ("KPI's") that include company earnings, operating costs performance and strategic objectives. The Managing Director and other key management personnel are rewarded for the performance of both the area they manage and the group as a whole.
After Cliffs purchase, a consultant was employed to review the Portman STI Plan and proposed changes to align it with the Cliffs Plan. This work was completed and approved by the Board in December 2005.
Because of the above study, specific KPI's for 2005 were not established for the Managing Director and Key Management Personnel. The Board reviewed the Managing Director's performance in detail, to determine the level of STI reward for 2005 and approved $175,000. The Board approved the STI payments to the other Key Management Personnel based on the recommendation of the Managing Director, after his review of their performances and approved $59,122, $68,425 and $60,000 for Messrs. Fujikawa, Nolan and Watters respectively.
Long Term Incentive (LTI)
To align the interests of the Key Management Personnel with the long term objectives of the Company and its majority shareholder, the company established a new Long Term Incentive Plan in 2005, which was approved by the Board in December 2005.
The plan covers a three year performance period and is measured on the following factors:
The Cliffs factors are the same as those used for the Cliffs Performance Share Plan. Portman's cumulative earnings versus plan was selected on the recommendation of the consultant.
Annual target awards are made to each participating key management personnel, which will be earned over the three year period. For the three year period 2005-2007, the company awards were $150,000, $60,000, $60,000, $60,000, $20,900 and $20,900 to Messrs. Mehan, Nolan, Watters, Fujikawa, Graber and Kipfstuhl respectively.
Retention Payment
To assist the company in retaining key management personnel, retention awards were made to the Managing Director and one key management person. The Managing Director's award of $425,000, which was approved in April 2005, is payable in two instalments, with 2/3 payable in April 2007 and the balance in April 2008. Mr. Watter's retention award, which was approved in May 2005, was for $150,000, with $50,000 payable in May 2005, and the balance payable in two instalments, in January 2006 and 2007. The awards are contingent upon the key management personnel's continued employment at payment dates. Mr Graber and Mr Kipfstuhl have retention payments, which were approved at the effective date of their secondment, and are contingent upon them completing the term of their secondment, equal to $61,475 and $47,131 respectively.
The structure and disclosure of the Company's remuneration policies for executive directors and other key management personnel are generally consistent with ASX Principle 9.
      
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(m) Remuneration report (continued)
Compensation (paid and payable) to Key Management Personnel
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(n) Remuneration report (continued)
Compensation (paid and payable) to Key Management Personnel
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(m) Remuneration report (continued)
      
Remuneration of Directors and Key Management Personnel
      
Notes
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(m) Remuneration report (continued)
Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (Unquoted Securities)
The Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) was adopted by the shareholders of the Company on 8 April 1998. The ESOP contains Company performance hurdles that must be achieved before options become exercisable.
Under the ESOP options to subscribe for fully paid ordinary shares of the Company may be issued to participants. Eligible employees (being employees, directors or consultants to any Portman Group Company), subject to invitation to participate by the Board of Directors of the Company, may participate in the ESOP.
Each ESOP option may convert to one fully paid ordinary share. The total number of shares granted under this ESOP, excluding any exercised, lapsed or cancelled options, must not exceed 5% of the then issued share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis (notwithstanding that those shares may for any reason subsequently represent more than 5% of that capital).
Any ESOP option which has not been exercised before the fifth anniversary of its issue date automatically lapses.
The exercise price of each ESOP option will be not less than the weighted average of the last sale prices of the Company's fully paid ordinary shares on the Australian Stock Exchange over the five trading days on which a sale was effected immediately preceding the day on which the Board resolves to issue the ESOP option.
The issue price of shares issued on the exercise of ESOP options is recognised as issued capital at the date of issue.
Share-based payment arrangements in existence during the period
Remuneration options: granted and vested during the year
No options were granted as equity compensation benefits to directors or other key management personnel during the financial year.
No options vested during the financial year as all options outstanding at 1 January 2005 were paid out and cancelled by Portman Limited. Portman Limited was subsequently reimbursed by Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Ltd.
Shares issued on exercise of remuneration options
No shares were issued during the financial year to directors or other key management personnel.
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(m) Remuneration report (continued)
      
Option holdings of directors and other key management personnel
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
(m) Remuneration report (continued)
      
Shareholdings of Directors and Other Key Management Personnel
All equity transactions with directors and other key management personnel other than those arising from the exercise of remuneration options have been entered into under terms and conditions no more favourable than those the entity would have adopted if dealing at arm's length.
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Portman Limited Financial Statements 2005
Page 33
 
27 February 2006
Our ref: H:\and\Clients\070425 Portman Ltd\31 December 2005 \PSR\Financial\2111 Independence declarations under s307C of the Corporations Act 2001.doc
Dear Board Members
AUDITOR'S INDEPENDENCE DECLARATION TO PORTMAN LIMITED
In accordance with section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001. I am pleased to provide the following declaration of independence to the directors of Portman Limited.
As lead audit partner for the audit of the financial statements of Portman Limited for the financial year ended 31 December 2005, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been no contraventions of:
Yours sincerely
/s/ (DELOITTE TOUCH TOHMATSU)
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU
/s/ AT Richards
Partner Chartered Accountant
AT Richards
Member of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
 
Independent audit report to the members of Portman Limited
Scope
The financial report, compensation disclosures and directors' responsibility
The financial report comprises the balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement, statement of changes in equity, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes and the directors' declaration for both Portman Limited (the company) and the consolidated entity, for the financial year ended 31 December 2005 as set out on pages 37 to 98. The consolidated entity comprises the company and the entities it controlled at the year's end or from time to time during the financial year.
The company has disclosed information about the compensation of key management personnel ("compensation disclosures"), as required by paragraphs Aus 25.4 to Aus 25.7.2 of Accounting Standard AASB 124 ("AASB 124") ("the compensation disclosures") under the heading "remuneration report" in pages 24 to 32 of the directors' report, as permitted by ASIC Class Order 06/50.
Related Party Disclosures
The directors of the company are responsible for the preparation and true and fair presentation of the financial report in accordance with Accounting Standards in Australia and the Corporations Act 2001. This includes responsibility for the maintenance of adequate financial records and internal controls that are designed to prevent and detect fraud and error, and for the accounting policies and accounting estimates inherent in the financial report. The directors are also responsible for the compensation disclosures contained in the directors' report.
Audit approach
We have conducted an independent audit of the financial report and compensation disclosures in order to express an opinion on them to the members of the company. Our audit has been conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards to provide reasonable assurance whether the financial report is free of material misstatement and the compensation disclosures comply with AASB 124. The nature of an audit is influenced by factors such as the use of professional judgement, selective testing, the inherent limitations of internal controls, and the availability of persuasive rather than conclusive evidence. Therefore, an audit cannot guarantee that all material misstatements have been detected.
We performed procedures to form an opinion whether, in all material respects, the financial report is presented fairly in accordance with Accounting Standards in Australia and the Corporations Act 2001 so as to present a view which is consistent with our understanding of the company's and the consolidated entity's financial position, and performance as represented by the results of their operations, their changes in equity and their cash flows and whether the compensation disclosures comply with AASB 124.
Member of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
 
Our procedures included examination, on a test basis, of evidence supporting the amounts and other disclosures in the financial report, and the evaluation of accounting policies and significant accounting estimates made by the directors.
While we considered the effectiveness of management's internal controls over financial reporting when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our audit was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls.
The audit opinion expressed in this report has been formed on the above basis.
In our opinion:
Audit Opinion
(1) the financial report of Portman Limited is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including:
/s/ (DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU)
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU
/s/ AT Richards Partner Chartered Accountants Perth, 27 February 2006
AT Richards
 
DIRECTORS' DECLARATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
The directors declare that:
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors, made pursuant to s295(5) of the Corporations Act 2001.
On behalf of the Directors
Portman Limited Financial Statements 2005
Page 37
 
PORTMAN LIMITED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 42 to 98.
Portman Limited Financial Statements 2005
Page 38
 
PORTMAN LIMITED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 42 to 98.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 42 to 98.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 42 to 98.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1: Summary of Accounting Policies
Statement of compliance
The financial report is a general purpose financial report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001, Accounting Standards and Urgent Issues Group Interpretations, and complies with other requirements of the law. Accounting Standards include Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards ("A-IFRS"). Compliance with the A-IFRS ensures that the consolidated financial statements and notes of the consolidated entity comply with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). The parent entity financial statements and notes also comply with IFRS except for the disclosure requirements in IAS 32 "Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation" as the Australian equivalent Accounting Standard, AASB 132 "Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation" does not require such disclosures to be presented by the parent entity where its separate financial statements are presented together with the consolidated financial statements of the consolidated entity.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 27 February 2006.
Basis of preparation
The financial report has been prepared on the basis of historical cost. Cost is based on the fair values of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
In the application of A-IFRS management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstance, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of A-IFRS that have significant effects on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustments in the next year are disclosed, where applicable, in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which ensures that the resulting financial information satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported.
The consolidated entity changed its accounting policies on 1 January 2005 to comply with A-IFRS. The transition to A-IFRS is accounted for in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 1 First-time Adoption of Australian Equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards', with 1 January 2004 as the date of transition. An explanation of how the transition from superseded policies to A-IFRS has affected the company's and consolidated entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows is discussed in note 1(t).
The accounting policies set out below have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005, the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004, and in the preparation of the opening A-IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 (as disclosed in note 39), the consolidated entity's date of transition, except for the accounting policies in respect of financial instruments. The consolidated entity has not restated comparative information for financial instruments, including derivatives, as permitted under the first-time adoption transitional provisions. The accounting policies for financial instruments applicable to the comparative information and the impact of changes in these accounting policies on 1 January 2005, the date of transition for financial instruments, is discussed further in note 1(t).
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
The following significant accounting policies have been adopted in the preparation and presentation of the financial report:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
(q) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Major depreciation periods are as follows:
Costs incurred during exploration and evaluation related to an area of interest are accumulated. Costs are carried forward provided such costs are expected to be recouped through successful development, or by sale, or where exploration and evaluation activities have not at balance date reached a stage to allow a reasonable assessment regarding the existence of economically recoverable reserves. In these instances the entity must have rights of tenure to the area of interest and must be continuing to undertake exploration operations in the area.
Exploration and evaluation
These assets are considered for impairment on a six monthly basis, depending on the existence of impairment indicators including:
Costs carried forward in respect of an area of interest that is abandoned are written off in the year in which the decision to abandon is made.
(r)       Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Entity has a present obligation, the future sacrifice of economic benefits is probable, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that recovery will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
     
(s)
Revenue recognition
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Consolidated Entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods.
Dividend revenue is recognised on a receivable basis.
Dividend and interest revenue
Interest revenue is recognised on a time proportionate basis that takes into account the effective yield on the financial asset.
     
(t)
Comparative information
The Consolidated Entity has elected not to restate comparative information for financial instruments within the scope of Accounting Standards AASB 132 "Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation" and AASB 139 "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement", as permitted on the first-time adoption of A-IFRS. The accounting policies applied to accounting for financial instruments in the current financial year are detailed in notes 1 (a) to (s). The following accounting policies were applied to accounting for financial instruments in the comparative financial year:
(i) Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances
Foreign currency transactions during the year are converted to Australian currency at the rates of exchange applicable at the dates of each transaction. Amounts receivable and payable in foreign currencies at year end are converted at the rates of exchange ruling at year end.
Specific Hedges
Hedging is undertaken in order to avoid or minimise possible adverse financial effects of movements in exchange rates. Where sales are specifically hedged, exchange gains or losses on the hedging transaction arising up to the date of sale and costs, premiums and discounts relative to the hedging transaction are deferred and included in measurement of the sale. Unrealised exchange gains and losses at each balance date are deferred and recognised in the Balance Sheet.
General Hedges
Where hedging is put in place that does not cover specific future transactions the unrealised exchange gains or losses on the hedging transaction that exist at year end are included in the Income Statement.
(ii) Investments
Listed shares held for trading are carried at net market value. Changes in net market value are recognised as revenue or expense in the Income Statement for the period.
Where listed shares have been revalued, any capital gains tax which may become payable has not been taken into account in determining the revalued carrying amount. Where it is expected that a liability for capital gains tax exists, this amount is recognised in the Income Statement for the reporting period.
All other non-current investments are carried at the lower of cost and recoverable amount.
Dividend income is recognised in the Income Statement when receivable.
(iii) Financial Instruments included in Equity
Ordinary share capital is recorded at consideration received. The costs of issuing shares are charged against share capital. Ordinary share capital bears no special terms or conditions affecting income or capital entitlements of the shareholders.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
(iv) Financial Instruments included in Liabilities
Loans and bills payable are recognised when issued at the amount of the net proceeds received, with any premium or discount on issue amortised over the period to maturity. Interest is recognised as an expense over the period the loans and bills are outstanding.
(v) Financial Instruments included in Assets
Trade debtors are initially recorded at the amount of contracted sales proceeds. Sales to foreign customers are either unsecured or under letter of credit arrangements, depending on the quality of customer credit.
Insurance claims receivable are brought to account when liability for a claim is acknowledged by the under-writer, at which time amounts receivable from the customer are written off.
Provision for doubtful debts is recognised to the extent that recovery of the outstanding receivable balance is considered less than likely. Any provision established is based on a review of all outstanding amounts at balance date. A specific provision is maintained for identified doubtful debts, and a general provision is maintained in respect of receivables which are doubtful of recovery but which have not been specifically identified.
Foreign currency options and forward exchange contracts are entered into as specific hedges of current receivables and future transactions and are recognised as either an asset or liability. The premium or discount and gain or loss is deferred and included in the initial measurement of the anticipated item being hedged. Where it becomes probable that some or all of the hedged transactions will not occur as designated the deferred gains and losses relating to those transactions that are no longer expected to occur as designated are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Bank deposits, bills of exchange, promissory notes, loans, marketable securities and marketable equity securities are carried at the lower of cost or recoverable amount. Interest revenue is recognised over the period the financial assets are outstanding.
Dividend revenue is recognised when the dividends are receivable.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date.
(vi) Payables
Liabilities for trade creditors and other amounts are carried at cost which is the fair value of the consideration to be paid in the future for goods and services received, whether or not billed to the Consolidated Entity.
Payables to related parties are carried at the principal amount. Interest, when charged by the lender, is recognised as an expense on an accrual basis.
Deferred cash settlements are recognised at the present value of the outstanding consideration payable on the acquisition of an asset discounted at prevailing commercial borrowing rates.
The effect of changes in the accounting policies for financial instruments on the balance sheet as at 1 January 2005 is shown below:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
     
(t)
Comparative information (continued)
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Accounting Policies (continued)
     
(t)
Comparative information (continued)
The effectiveness of hedging relationships are assessed from 1 January 2005. No adjustment has been made in relation to the ineffective portion of hedges under the superseded policies for hedges which were not considered highly effective before 1 January 2005.
The main adjustments necessary that would make the comparative financial statements comply with AASB 132 and AASB 139 are listed below:
(u)      Other changes in accounting policies
The Consolidated Entity has early adopted UIG 4 "Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease" effective for the year ended 31 December 2005. The early adoption of the UIG has resulted in the recording of a finance lease as disclosed in note 39 (b).
Early adoption
The Consolidated Entity has not considered the impact on the financial statements for future reporting periods as a result of the revisions to AASB139 "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement".
AASB Accounting Standards not yet effective
In addition the Consolidated Entity has not considered the impact on the financial statements for future reporting periods of the newly issued standard AASB7 "Financial Instruments: Disclosures" which is effective 1 January 2007.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 3: Income taxes (continued)
The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 30% payable by Australian corporate entities on taxable profits under Australian tax law. There has been no change in the corporate tax rate when compared with the previous reporting period.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 3: Income taxes (continued)
Taxable and deductible temporary differences arise from the following:
Note: (1) Includes an opening adjustment of $192 thousand.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3: Income taxes (continued)
(e) Unrecognised deferred tax balances
The consolidated and parent entities have estimated capital tax losses, the benefit of which at 30%, have not been brought to account as follows:
The benefit for the capital tax losses will only be obtained if:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3: Income taxes (continued)
Tax Consolidation
Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity.
The company and its wholly-owned Australian resident entities have formed a tax-consolidated group with effect from 1 January 2004 and are therefore taxed as a single entity from that date. The head entity within the tax-consolidated group is Portman Ltd. The members of the tax-consolidated group are identified at note 12.
Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements
Entities within the tax-consolidated group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with the head entity. Under the terms of the tax funding arrangement, Portman Limited and each of the entities in the tax-consolidated group has agreed to pay a tax equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity. Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the tax-consolidated group.
The tax sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations. No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax sharing agreement is considered remote.
Note 4: Dividends
After completion of the Cleveland-Cliffs acquisition, your Board met four times in 2005 since the acquisition and reviewed the financial status of the company and took no actions on dividends.
(c) Franking Account Balance
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(a) Controlled Entities of Portman Limited
All the entities above are members of the tax-consolidated group of which Portman Limited is the head entity.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 25: Issued capital (continued)
Share Options
Employee Share Option Plan, Non Employee Share Option Plan and Directors' Options
Details of options issued, cancelled and exercised during the year and options outstanding at 31 December 2005 are included in Note 29.
Terms and Conditions of Issued Capital
Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares have the right to receive dividends as declared and, in the event of winding up the company, to participate in the proceeds from the sale of all surplus assets in proportion to the number of and amounts paid up on shares held. Ordinary shares entitle their holder to one vote, either in person or by proxy, at a meeting of the Company.
Changes to the then Corporations Law abolished the authorised capital and par value concept in relation to share capital from 1 July 1998. Therefore, the company does not have a limited amount of authorised capital and issued shares do not have a par value.
Note 26: Earnings per share
(b) Share data
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 26: Earnings per share (continued)
There are no non dilutive potential ordinary shares as at 31 December 2005.
(c) Non dilutive potential ordinary shares
There are no converted, lapsed or cancelled potential ordinary shares included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as at 31 December 2005.
(d) Converted, lapsed or cancelled potential ordinary shares
Since the end of the financial year no new ordinary shares have been issued.
(e) Conversions, calls, subscription or issues after 31 December 2005
There are no options outstanding as at 31 December 2005.
(f) Options
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 27: Interests in jointly controlled operations
(a) The Consolidated Entity has an interest in a jointly controlled operation as follows:
(b) Cockatoo Island Joint Venture net assets
The Consolidated Entity's share of the assets and liabilities of the joint venture which has been included in the financial statements is:
For details of capital expenditure commitments and contingent liabilities relating to the joint venture refer to Notes 31 and 32 respectively.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 28: Remuneration of auditors
Note
All amounts shown above are exclusive of Goods & Services Tax (GST). The prior year comparative has been adjusted to exclude GST.
During the year the auditor of Portman Limited and its controlled entities changed from Ernst & Young to Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.
No non audit services were provided by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu during the year and therefore the Company is satisfied that independence has not been impaired with regard to the audit services provided.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Employee entitlements and share options
Portman Limited Employee Option Plans
Portman Limited previously had two employee option plans in existence. The Employee Option Plan (EOP) and the Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP). All options issued under the Portman Limited Employee Option Plan (EOP) have been exercised, have expired or have been cancelled. The Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) is the only plan now operating.
In addition, Portman has issued options called Directors' Options that are not under, but are subject to the rules of, the ESOP and Non ESOP Options that are separate entirely from the ESOP.
Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (Unquoted Securities)
The Portman Limited Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) was adopted by the shareholders of the Company on 8 April 1998 to effectively replace the EOP referred to above. The ESOP contains Company performance hurdles that must be achieved before options become exercisable.
Under the ESOP options to subscribe for fully paid ordinary shares of the Company may be issued to participants. Eligible employees (being employees, directors or consultants to any Portman Group Company), subject to invitation to participate by the Board of Directors of the Company, may participate in the ESOP.
Each ESOP option may convert to one fully paid ordinary share. The total number of shares granted under this ESOP, excluding any exercised, lapsed or cancelled options, must not exceed 5% of the then issued share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis (notwithstanding that those shares may for any reason subsequently represent more than 5% of that capital).
Any ESOP option which has not been exercised before the fifth anniversary of its issue date automatically lapses.
The exercise price of each ESOP option will be not less than the weighted average of the last sale prices of the Company's fully paid ordinary shares on the Australian Stock Exchange over the five trading days on which a sale was effected immediately preceding the day on which the Board resolves to issue the ESOP option.
The issue price of shares issued on the exercise of ESOP options is recognised as issued capital at the date of issue.
As part of the acquisition of a controlling interest in Portman Limited by Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Ltd during the year ended 31 December 2005, Portman Limited paid out and cancelled 4,378,433 share options, which equated to $9,338,642, under the existing share option plans. Portman Limited was fully reimbursed for the options paid out by Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Ltd.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Employee entitlements and share options (continued)
Information with respect to options granted under the employee share option plan, non employee share option plan and director option plan is summarised below:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Employee entitlements and share options (continued)
(b) Options held at the beginning of the reporting period
The following table summarises information about options held by employees as at 1 January 2005:
The following table summarises information about options held by employees as at 1 January 2004:
(c) Options granted during the reporting period
(i) No options were granted by Portman Limited to employees during 2005 or 2004.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Employee entitlements and share options (continued)
Fair value of shares issued during the reporting period is the market price of shares of Portman Limited on the ASX as at close of trading on their respective dates.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Employee entitlements and share options (continued)
(e) Options held as at the end of the reporting date
There were no options held by eligible option holders as at 31 December 2005.
Superannuation Commitments
The employer contributes in accordance with the Government Superannuation Guarantee Legislation.
 
Non-cancellable operating lease relating to office premises with a remaining lease term of 7 years. Rental payments are generally fixed with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined. Outgoings related to the occupation of premises are included in these commitments.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 31: Commitments for expenditure (continued)
(c) Finance Lease Commitments
The finance lease relates to items of plant and equipment with a remaining lease term of up to 12 years, subject to extension not exceeding a further 15 years. Rental payments are fixed. The parent entity has guaranteed the performance of the lease.
(d) Mining Tenements
(e) Other Commitments
Commitments exist under long term take or pay agreements relating to the rail and port facilities which have been entered into by a controlled entity within the Consolidated Entity. The port contract includes minimum tonnage requirements of 2.5 million tonnes from 2006 through 2015 at an annual cost of $1,250 thousand. The rail contract includes minimum take or pay requirements of 5.0 million tonnes or A$52.9 million, from 2006 through 2012.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 32: Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities not otherwise provided for in these financial statements are:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 33: Financing arrangements
(a) Multi Option Committed Facility
The following lines of credit with financial institutions were available at the year end:
The unused facilities at year end are available for any use within the Consolidated Entity. The $40,000 thousand Multi-option facility is subject to annual review and is secured by a Cleveland-Cliffs Inc guarantee.
(b) Customer funding
During the year the Consolidated Entity received long term funding, in United States Dollars ("USD"), from concluded long term sales agreements to assist with the funding of the 8Mpta expansion of the Koolyanobbing operation. The funds advanced are interest bearing at 5% and are repayable in arrears over five years, with years one to four requiring the repayment of 10% principal plus accrued interest each year and year five requiring the final repayment of the outstanding principal and accrued interest.
As at 31 December 2005 all funds had been received and are disclosed as borrowings in Note 17 and 21. Interest relating to the customer funding of $380 thousand has been capitalised as disclosed in Note 30.
Note 34: Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives
The Consolidated Entity has the following financial risk management objectives:
i) Foreign exchange
ii) Borrowings
iii) Surplus cash
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
(c) Foreign currency risk management
The Consolidated Entity uses derivative financial instruments to manage specifically identified foreign currency exposures. The Consolidated Entity is primarily exposed to the risk of adverse movements in the Australian dollar compared to the United States dollar ("USD") as its iron ore sales receipts are denominated in USD. The primary objective of using derivative financial instruments is to reduce the volatility of earnings attributable to changes in AUD/USD, and to protect against undue adverse movements in these rates. The Consolidated Entity uses the following derivative instruments to manage foreign currency risk:
The Consolidated Entity hedges a portion of its anticipated future sales for periods up to three years (rolling monthly). The Board of Directors has set the following guidelines for the portion of forecasted export sales that can be hedged:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
All proposals for additional foreign exchange hedging outside the parameters stated above must be submitted to the Treasury Policy Committee, comprising an external independent advisor and three other committee members and then approved by the Portman Board of Directors.
The following table details the foreign currency contracts outstanding as at reporting date:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
The following table summarises deferred realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments entered as hedges of future anticipated purchases and sales, showing the periods in which they are expected to be recognised as income or expense as at 31 December 2004. Deferred gains and losses are recognised as a component of the purchase or sale transaction when it occurs, or as other gains or losses when a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur. These deferred gains and losses are calculated as the mark to market position as at 31 December 2004. The unrealised gains and losses from a mark to market calculation are different to the unrealised gains and losses recorded in the comparative period, which have been measured on a mark to spot basis in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 1012 "Foreign Currency Translation".
It should be noted that unrealised gains or losses for foreign exchange derivative instruments reflect changes in the underlying foreign exchange rates since the contracts were undertaken.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Interest Rate
The Consolidated Entity is exposed to interest rate risk as it has borrowed funds at fixed interest rates only. This risk has been managed by entering into borrowings at a rate that is financially tolerable to the company.
The following table details the Consolidated Entity's exposure to interest rate risk together with effective interest rates as at 31 December 2005.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
The following table details the Consolidated Entity's exposure to interest rate risk together with effective interest rates as at 31 December 2004.
(e) Credit Risk Exposures
The credit risk amounts do not take into account the value of any collateral or security. Receivables due from major counter-parties are not normally secured by collateral, however most sales are covered by letters of credit. In addition the group policy requires that counter-parties meet certain high levels of credit worthiness and the credit worthiness of counter-parties is regularly monitored. The amounts of credit risk shown, therefore, do not reflect expected losses.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
(f) Net Fair Value Of Financial Assets And Liabilities
As detailed in the following table, the directors consider that the carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements approximates their fair values (2004: net fair values).
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the net fair value of each class of financial instrument:
Transaction costs are included in the determination of net fair value.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 34: Financial instruments (continued)
(f) Liquidity risk management
The Consolidated Entity manages liquidity risk by maintaining banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information
(a) Equity interest in related parties
Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements.
Equity interests in subsidiaries
Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements
Equity interests in joint ventures
(b) Key management personnel compensation
The key management personnel of Portman Limited during the year were:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information (continued)
The aggregate compensation of the key management personnel of the Consolidated Entity and the Company is set out below:
(c) Key management personnel equity holdings
Shareholdings of directors and other key management personnel
Fully paid ordinary shares of Portman Ltd
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information (continued)
(c) Key management personnel equity holdings (continued)
Fully paid ordinary shares of Portman Ltd
All equity transactions with directors and other key management personnel other than those arising from the exercise of remuneration options have been entered into under terms and conditions no more favourable than those the entity would have adopted if dealing at arm's length
Option holdings of directors and other key management personnel
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information (continued)
(d) Key management personnel equity holdings (continued)
Option holdings of directors and other key management personnel
(e) Transactions with other related parties
Other related parties include:
Transactions between Portman Limited and related parties in the wholly owned group during the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 consisted of:
Transactions involving the parent entity
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information (continued)
(d) Transactions with other related parties
The above transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, except that there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans advanced by Portman Limited.
Loans to and receivables from related entities are on an unsecured basis, non interest bearing and with no fixed terms for repayment.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cliffs'), an iron ore company incorporated in the United States of America, acquired a controlling interest of 80.45% in Portman Limited during 2005.
Transactions involving other related parties
Transactions between Portman Limited and Cliffs during the year ended 31 December 2005 consisted of:
The above transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Loans to and receivables from Cliffs entities are on an unsecured basis with normal commercial repayment terms.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 36: Related party information (continued)
(f) Parent entities
The parent entity in the consolidated entity is Portman Limited.
Portman Limited's parent entity is Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Pty Limited and the ultimate Australian parent entity is Cleveland-Cliffs Australia Holdings Pty Limited.
The ultimate parent entity is Cleveland-Cliffs Inc which is incorporated in the United States of America.
Note 37: Subsequent events
On 31 January 2005 mining contractor Henry Walker Eltin Group Ltd (HWE) went into voluntary administration. Portman utilises the services of HWE for contract mining at its Koolyanobbing and Cockatoo Island Iron Ore projects. The Cockatoo Island Iron Ore project is an unincorporated joint venture between HWE and Portman. As of 1 February 2006, HWE's mining assets were sold to Leighton Contractors, an Australian based mining and construction contractor, and the Koolyanobbing contract has been assumed by them. Leighton also purchased HWE's subsidiary that owned its 50% interest in the Cockatoo Island joint venture, and is continuing to manage the operation.
There has not been any other matter or circumstance that has arisen since the year-end that has affected or may significantly affect the operations of the Consolidated Entity, the results of those operations or the state of affairs of the Consolidated Entity in subsequent periods.
Note 38: Segment Information
The Consolidated Entity changed its accounting policies on 1 January 2005 to comply with Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards ("A-IFRS"). The transition to A-IFRS is accounted for in accordance with Accounting Standard AASB 1"First-time Adoption of Australian Equivalents to International Financial reporting Standards", with 1 January 2004 as the date of transition, except for financial instruments, including derivatives, where the date of transition is 1 January 2005 (refer note 1(t)).
An explanation of how the transition from superseded policies to A-IFRS has affected the Company and Consolidated Entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows is set out in the following tables and the notes that accompany the tables.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Effect of A-IFRS on the balance sheet as at 1 January 2004:
 
 
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Effect of A-IFRS on the income statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2004:
 
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Effect of A-IFRS on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2004:
 
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Effect of A-IFRS on the cash flow statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2004
There are no material differences between the cash flow statement presented under A-IFRS and the cash flow statement presented under the superseded policies other than the reclassification of the EPA port contract from a service contract to a finance lease (refer Note 36 (b)).
Notes to the reconciliations of income and equity
(a) Rehabilitation
Under the superseded policies, costs of rehabilitation work were provided for and treated as production costs. Costs were recognised prospectively over the life of mine based on production. The provision was to be applied against all rehabilitation costs, including reclamation, infrastructure removal and waste treatment.
Under A-IFRS, the costs of dismantling and removing an asset and restoring the site on which it is located is to be included as an element of asset cost with a corresponding provision being recorded. The asset and liability are initially recorded at their discounted value. The asset is then depreciated over its useful life and the provision is increased by the time value of money (accretion) up until the time of closure.
As a result of applying A-IFRS the following adjustments were recognised as at the following dates:
The effect on consolidated profit for financial year ended 31 December 2004 was to decrease previously reported net profit after tax by $647,000.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(b) Finance Lease
Portman has a long term service contract with the Esperance Port Authority for the provision of services by the Port for the management of stockpiles and loading of vessels. In addition, the port built certain infrastructure facilities for the specific use of Portman and charges Portman for this capital cost plus an applicable interest charge over the life of the contract.
Under A-IFRS the infrastructure facilities built by the Esperance Port Authority for Portman are considered to be a finance lease and hence has been accounted for accordingly. The superseded policies contained no specific guidance on the treatment of service contracts such as the Esperance Port Authority and thus a finance lease was not recognised for the port assets. Instead the payments were expensed as incurred.
As a result of applying A-IFRS the following adjustments were recognised as at the following dates:
The effect on consolidated profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 was to decrease previously reported net profit after tax by $432,000.
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 39: Impacts of the adoption of Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
(c) Income tax
Under superseded policies, the consolidated entity adopted tax-effect accounting principles whereby income tax expense was calculated on pre-tax accounting profits after adjustment for permanent differences. The tax-effect of timing differences, which occur when items were included or allowed for income tax purposes in a period different to that for accounting were recognised at current taxation rates as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, as applicable.
Under A-IFRS, deferred tax is determined using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases.
In addition Portman has adopted UIG 1052: Tax Consolidation Accounting for the year ended 31 December 2005 in conjunction with A-IFRS. As a result the deferred tax balances of the parent entity have been restated to include only the deferred tax balances of the parent entity.
As a result of applying A-IFRS the following adjustments on the deferred tax balances were recognised as at the following dates:
The effect on consolidated profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 was to decrease previously reported income tax expense by $998,000 respectively.
As a result of applying "UIG1052: Tax Consolidation Accounting" the following de-recognition on the deferred tax balances were recognised as at the following dates:
 
PORTMAN LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 39: Impacts of the adoption of Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
(d) Revenue
Under superseded policies, the Consolidated Entity recognised the gain or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment on a gross basis by recognising the proceeds from sale as revenue, and the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment disposed as an expense. Under A-IFRS, the gain or loss on disposal is recognised on a net basis, and is classified as income, rather than revenue. Accordingly, the gross amounts have been reclassified within the income statement for A-IFRS reporting purposes.
(e) Retained earnings
The effect of the above adjustments on retained earnings is as follows:
 
Shareholding Details
(At 22 February 2006)
(a) The Number of Holders of Each Class of Security
(b) Distribution Schedule
There were 18 holders holding less than a marketable parcel ($500)
(c) Substantial Shareholders Notices Given to Portman Limited as at 22 February 2006
(d) 20 Largest Holders of Ordinary Fully Paid Shares
(e) Voting Rights
On a show of hands every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and upon a poll each share shall have one vote in accordance with the Company's Constitution.
(f) Stock Exchange Listing
The Company's fully paid ordinary shares are listed on Australian Stock Exchange Limited and are traded on the Third Market Segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany
.
 
Shareholder Information
(At 22 February 2006)
Enquires
Shareholders with enquiries about any aspect of their shareholdings should contact the Company's Share Registry as follows:
Advanced Share Registry Services 110 Stirling Highway NEDLANDS WA 6009
The Final Dividend
After completion of the Cleveland-Cliffs acquisition, your Board met four times in 2005 since the acquisition and reviewed the financial status of the company and took no actions on dividends.
Direct Payment to Shareholders' Accounts
Shareholders who currently receive their dividends by cheque may wish to take advantage of the direct deposit system which is available to anyone who has an account with a bank, building society or credit union within Australia. The direct deposit system is prompt and secure. Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly to their account should notify the Share Registry in writing.
Stock Exchange Listing
The Company's shares are listed on the ASX. Details of share transactions and prices are published in the financial pages of daily capital city newspapers under the code PMM.
Electronic Announcements and Reports
Shareholders who wish to receive announcements made to the ASX, as well as electronic copies of the Annual Report and HalfYear Report, are invited to provide their email address to the Company. This can be completed by writing to the Company Secretary.
Removal from the printed Annual Report mailing list
Shareholders who do not wish to receive the printed Portman Limited Annual Report should advise the Share Registry in writing to remove their names from the mailing list. Those Shareholders will continue to receive all other Shareholder information.
 
Shareholder Information
(At 22 February 2006)
Change of name/address
Shareholders who are Issuer Sponsored should advise the Share Registry promptly of any change of name and/or address so that correspondence with them does not go astray. All such changes must be advised in writing and cannot be accepted by telephone.
Shareholders who are in CHESS and Broker Sponsored should instruct their sponsoring broker in writing to notify the Share Registry of any change of name and/or address.
In the case of all name changes the written advice must be supported by documentary evidence.
Tax File Number (TFN)
Whilst not compulsory, most Australian resident shareholders prefer to quote their TFN so as to avoid withholding tax being deducted from dividends which are unfranked.
Shareholders who are Issuer Sponsored should advise the Share Registry of their TFN.
Shareholders who are Broker Sponsored can either advise their sponsoring broker or the share Registry of their TFN.
TFN application forms can be obtained from the Share Registry on request.
Australian Business Number (ABN)
As from July 2000 Australian companies have the option to quote their ABN in lieu of their TFN to avoid withholding tax being deducted from dividends which are unfranked.
Consolidation of Shareholdings
Shareholders who wish to consolidate their separate shareholdings into one account should write to the Share Registry or their sponsoring broker, whichever is applicable.
Registered Office
Level 11, The Quadrant 1 William Street PERTH WA 6000 AUSTRALIA
Company Secretary
L A Kipfstuhl


