FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20060215163928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 10, 2006, our Northshore mine received a Notice of Violation ("Notice") from the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The Notice cites four alleged violations: (1) that Northshore violated the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") requirements of the Clean Air Act in the 1990 restart of Furnaces 11 and 12; (2) that Northshore mine violated the PSD Regulations in the 1995 restart of Furnace 6; (3) Title V operating permit violations for not including in the Title V permit all applicable requirements (including a compliance schedule for PSD and Best Available Control Technology ("BACT") requirements associated with the furnace restarts); and (4) failure to comply with calibration of monitoring equipment as required under Northshores Title V permit. The alleged violations relating to the restart of Furnaces 11 and 12 occurred prior to our acquisition of Northshore (formerly Cyprus Northshore Mining Company) in a share purchase in 1994. The Company is currently reviewing EPA 's allegations, which date back more than a decade, and is scheduled to meet with EPA in March regarding this issue. Based on Northshore's review of facility permits and understanding to date, Northshore believes its Silver Bay facility has complied with all air permitting requirements including the use of best available control technology. On February 15, 2006, the EPA published a news release disclosing the citing that has been given to Northshore mine. The news release is attached under Item 9.01 as exhibit 99(a)of this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99(a) Press Release dated February 15, 2006 by the EPA
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EPA CITES NORTHSHORE MINING FOR CLEAN-AIR VIOLATIONS
CHICAGO (Feb. 15, 2006)- U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 5 has cited Northshore Mining Co. for alleged clean-air violations at the company's taconite ore processing plant at 10 Outer Drive, Silver Bay, Minn.
EPA alleges that, among other things, Northshore and its predecessor, Cyprus Minerals Co., modified three furnaces at the Silver Bay plant causing significant increases in emissions of nitrogen oxide, pariculates (smoke, dust, ash), and carbon monoxide without installing the best available technology to control the releases.
"EPA's mission is to protect public health and the environment," said Regional Administrator Thomas V. Skinner. "We will take whatever steps are needed to ensure compliance with the Clean Air Act."
These are preliminary findings of violations. To resolve them, EPA may issue a compliance order, assess an administrative penalty or bring suit against the company. Northshore has 30 days from receipt of the notice to meet with EPA to discuss resolving the allegations.
Nitrogen oxides contribute to the formation of ground-level ozone, or smog. Smog is formed when a mixture of air pollutants is baked in the hot summer sun. Smog can cause a variety of respiratory problems, including coughing and sneezing, shortness of breath and chest pain. People with asthma, children and the elderly are especially at risk, but these concerns are important to everyone.
Inhaling high concentrations of particulates can affect children, the elderly and people with heart and lun diseases the most.
When carbon monoxide enters the bloodstream, it reduces delivery of oxygen to the body's organs and tissues. Exposure to high levels of carbon monoxide can impair vision, hand movement, learning ability and performance of complex tasks, and can cause death.


