FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20061218165151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 12, 2006, Cliffs International Lux IV Sarl, a subsidiary of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (the "Company"), entered into a definitive share purchase agreement (the "Agreement") with Centennial Asset Mining Fund LLC, an affiliate of MMX Minerao e Metlicos SA ("MMX"), Eike Fuhrken Batista and MMX to acquire 30 percent of the Amapa Project through the acquisition of 100 percent of the shares of Centennial Asset Amap Participaes SA ("Centennial Amap") for US$133 million. The Amap Project is a Brazilian iron ore project consisting of a significant iron ore deposit, a 192-kilometer railway and 71 hectares of real estate on the banks of the Amazon River earmarked for the development of an iron ore terminal. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company would provide technical support for the construction and operation of the Amap Project and MMX would provide corporate and institutional support services. The Company would also be responsible for 30 percent of the future capital for the Amap Project. Closing is anticipated to occur during the first quarter of 2007 subject to completion of project financing, final due diligence, regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions. A copy of the press release issued by the Company on December 12, 2006 is included as Exhibit 99(a) hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99(a) The Company published a press release captioned, "Cleveland-Cliffs Signs Definitive Share Purchase Agreement to Acquire 30% Interest in Brazilian Mine Project" dated December 12, 2006
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

CLEVELAND-CLIFFS
NEWS RELEASE
 December 12, 2006  (NYSE: CLF) today announced that it has signed a definitive share purchase agreement with Centennial Asset Mining Fund LLC, an affiliate of MMX Minerao e Metlicos SA ("MMX"), to acquire 30 percent of the Amap Project through the acquisition of 100 percent of the shares of Centennial Asset Amap Participaes SA ("Centennial Amap"). Centennial Amap owns 30 percent of the Amap Project, a Brazilian iron ore project.
Cleveland, OH
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc ("Cleveland-Cliffs," "Cliffs")
When completed, Amap is expected to produce 6.5 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate annually. Under the definitive share repurchase agreement, Cliffs would purchase 100 percent of the shares of Centennial Amap for US$133 million.
Closing is anticipated to occur during the first quarter of 2007, subject to completion of project financing, final due diligence, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Cleveland-Cliffs Chief Executive Officer Joseph A. Carrabba said, "We are optimistic about the Amap Project. The proposed transaction marks an additional step in Cliffs' long-term strategy, further diversifying our operations and expanding our presence in the global iron ore business."
To be added to Cleveland-Cliffs' e-mail distribution list, please click on the link below:
http://www.cpg-llc.com/clearsite/clf/emailoptin.html
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and sells the majority of its pellets to integrated steel companies in the United States and Canada. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc operates a total of six iron ore mines located in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada. The Company is majority owner of Portman Limited, the third-largest iron ore mining company in Australia, serving the Asian iron ore markets with direct-shipping fines and lump ore.
This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that the transactions contemplated by the share purchase agreement will be consummated or any transaction in connection with the Amap Project being completed.
Actual results may differ materially from such statements for a variety of reasons, including: changes in global demand for iron ore by integrated steel producers due to changes in steel utilization rates, consolidation and rationalization, operational factors, and electric furnace production; availability of capital equipment and component parts; availability of float capacity on the Great Lakes; changes in the financial condition of the Company's partners and/or customers; rejection of major contracts and/or venture agreements by customers and/or participants under provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar statutes in other countries; inability to achieve expected production levels; failure to receive or maintain required environmental permits; problems with productivity, labor disputes, weather conditions, fluctuations in ore grade, tons mined, changes in cost factors including energy costs, transportation and employee benefit costs; and the effect of these various risks on the Company's future cash flows, debt levels, liquidity and financial position.
Reference is also made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, set forth in the Company's Annual Report for 2005, Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cleveland-Cliffs' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superseded by subsequent events.
News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at: .
http://www.cleveland-cliffs.com
SOURCE: Cleveland-Cliffs Inc
CONTACT: Media: 1-216-694-4870 Financial Community: 1-800-214-0739, or 1-216-694-5459


