FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20060630161043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On March 2, 2004, Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to set forth in one document a description of the Common Shares (as defined below) of the Company. On November 9, 2004, the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation (1) to change each issued and unissued authorized Common Share into two Common Shares, (2) to proportionately increase the authorized number of Common Shares from 28,000,000 to 56,000,000 shares, and (3) to decrease the par value of the issued and unissued Common Shares from $1.00 per share to $0.50 per share. On May 9, 2006, the Directors approved an amendment (the "Second Amendment") to the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation (1) to change each issued and unissued authorized common share into two common shares, (2) to proportionately increase the authorized number of common shares from 56,000,000 shares to 112,000,000 shares, and (3) to decrease the par value of the issued and unissued common shares from $0.50 per share to $0.25 per share. The Second Amendment became effective on June 15, 2006. A copy of the Second Amendment is attached as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 9, 2006.
     The description set forth below highlights important terms of the Common Shares as of the date hereof. This description is not a complete description of the terms of the Common Shares and is qualified by reference to the full text of the exhibits hereto, which are incorporated by reference into this document, and the provisions of Ohio law cited herein.
General
     The Company has authorized 112,000,000 Common Shares, par value $0.25 per share (the "Common Shares"). The holders of Common Shares are entitled to one vote for each share upon all matters upon which shareholders have the right to vote and, upon proper notice, are entitled to cumulative voting rights in the election of directors. Common Shares do not have any preemptive rights, are not subject to redemption and do not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
     Holders of Common Shares are entitled to receive such dividends as the Company's directors from time to time may declare out of funds legally available therefor. Entitlement to dividends is subject to the preferences granted to other classes of securities the Company has or may have outstanding in the future. In the event of liquidation of the Company, holders of Common Shares are entitled to share in any assets of the Company remaining after satisfaction in full of its liabilities and satisfaction of such dividend and liquidation preferences as may be possessed by the holders of other classes of securities the Company has or may have outstanding in the future.
     The Common Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CLF."
     The transfer agent and registrar for the Common Shares is Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
Shareholder Rights Plan
     On September 9, 1997 the directors of the Company authorized and declared a dividend consisting of one right ("Right") for each Common Share outstanding as of the close of business on September 19, 1997 (the "Record Date"). Each Right represents the right to purchase one-hundredth of
Table of Contents
one Common Share at an exercise price per Right of $159.66 on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Rights Agreement, dated as of September 19, 1997, as amended (the "Rights Agreement"). The Rights Agreement also provides, subject to specified exceptions and limitations, that Common Shares issued or delivered from the Company's treasury after the Record Date will be entitled to and accompanied by Rights. The Rights will expire on September 19, 2007 (unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company in accordance with the Rights Agreement), and are not exercisable until the occurrence of certain triggering events, which include the acquisition of, or tender or exchange offer for, 20 percent or more of the then-outstanding Common Shares. The Company is entitled to redeem the Rights at one cent per Right upon the occurrence of certain events. The Company is also entitled to exchange the Rights for Common Shares in certain circumstances.
Ohio Control Share Statute
     Section 1701.831 of the Ohio Revised Code requires the prior authorization of the shareholders of certain corporations in order for any person to acquire, either directly or indirectly, shares of that corporation that would entitle the acquiring person to exercise or direct the exercise of 20% or more of the voting power of that corporation in the election of directors or to exceed specified other percentages of voting power. In the event an acquiring person proposes to make such an acquisition, the person is required to deliver to the corporation a statement disclosing, among other things, the number of shares owned, directly or indirectly, by the person, the range of voting power that may result from the proposed acquisition and the identity of the acquiring person. Within 10 days after receipt of this statement, the corporation must call a special meeting of shareholders to vote on the proposed acquisition. The acquiring person may complete the proposed acquisition only if the acquisition is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares entitle to vote in the election of directors represented at the meeting excluding the voting power of all "interested shares." Interested shares include any shares held by the acquiring person and those held by officers and directors of the corporation as well as by certain others, including many holders commonly characterized as arbitrageurs. Section 1701.831 does not apply to a corporation if its articles of incorporation or code of regulations state that the statute does not apply to a corporation. Neither the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation nor its Amended Regulations contain a provision opting out of this statute.
Ohio Interested Shareholder Statute
     Chapter 1704 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Ohio prohibits certain corporations from engaging in a "chapter 1704 transaction" with an "interested shareholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless, among other things:
     After the three-year moratorium period, the corporation may not consummate a chapter 1704 transaction unless, among other things, it is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power in the election of directors and the holders of a majority of the voting
Table of Contents
shares, excluding all shares beneficially owned by an interested shareholder or an affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, or the shareholders receive certain minimum consideration for their shares. A chapter 1704 transaction includes certain mergers, sales of assets, consolidations, combinations and majority share acquisitions involving an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined to include, with limited exceptions, any person who, together with affiliates and associates, is the beneficial owner of a sufficient number of shares of the corporation to entitle the person, directly or indirectly, alone or with others, to exercise or direct the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in the election of directors after taking into account all of the person's beneficially owned shares that are not then outstanding.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 4(a)
THIS CERTIFIES THAT
IS THE OWNER OF
                                  FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE COMMON SHARES OF THE PAR VALUE OF 0.25 DOLLAR EACH OF Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, transferable on the books of the Company by the registered holder in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate properly endorsed. This certificate and the shares represented hereby are issued and shall be held subject to all the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company filed in the office of the Secretary of State of Ohio (copies of which are on file with the Company and with the Transfer Agent) to which the holder by acceptance hereof assents. This certificate is not valid unless countersigned by the Transfer Agent and registered by the Registrar.
                         Witness the seal of the Company and the signatures of its duly authorized officers.
 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR, BY /s/ Stephen Cesso AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
     The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM          - as tenants in common
TEN ENT          - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN- as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
     A COPY OF THE EXPRESS TERMS OF THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE AND OF ALL OTHER CLASSES AND SERIES OF SHARES WHICH CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE WILL BE MAILED TO ANY SHAREHOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE WITHIN FIVE DAYS AFTER RECEIPT FROM SUCH SHAREHOLDER OF A WRITTEN REQUEST THEREFOR. SUCH REQUEST SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY OF CLEVELAND-CLIFFS INC, 15TH FLOOR, DIAMOND BUILDING, 1100 SUPERIOR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114-2589.
For value received, hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
          
     PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE.
Attorney, to transfer the said shares on the books of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated,
                    
X    
                    
          
This Certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as described in a Rights Agreement between Cleveland-Cliffs Inc and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (successor in interest to First Chicago Trust Company of New York), dated as of September 19, 1997, as amended (the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal executive offices of Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. The Rights are not exercisable prior to the occurrence of certain events specified in the Rights Agreement. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, the Rights may be redeemed, may be exchanged, may expire, may be amended, or may be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this Certificate. Cleveland-Cliffs Inc will mail to the holder of this Certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement without charge promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances, Rights that are or were beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as those terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) and any subsequent holder of such Rights may become null and void.


