FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20070828131315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
            DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED):                     AUGUST 27, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01.    Other Events
On August 27, 2007, Portman Limited ("Portman") filed with the Australian Stock Exchange its unaudited half year report for the period ended June 30, 2007. The "Half Yearly Report for the Period Ended June 30, 2007" is contained in Item 9.01 as exhibit 99(a) on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. The information on this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
ITEM 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:     August 28, 2007
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99(a)
 
( 21 pages in total)
 
The Announcements Officer
Australian Stock Exchange (Sydney) Limited
Level 10
20 Bond Street
SYDNEY NSW 2001
Dear Sir
HALF YEARLY REPORT FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
Please find attached Portman's Half Yearly report for the period ended 30 June 2007.
Yours faithfully
/s/ C. M. Rainsford
C M Rainsford
Company Secretary
PORTMAN LIMITED
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
PORTMAN LIMITED
A.B.N. 22 007 871 892
CORPORATE DIRECTORY
 
 
2
PORTMAN LIMITED
A.B.N. 22 007 871 892
HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
Results for announcement to the market
Iron Ore Division
 
 
Koolyanobbing Project -
 
 
Cockatoo Island Project -
 
 
Corporate
No dividend has been declared for the first half of 2007.
Outlook
The 2007 Australian average selling price of lump and fines ore is expected to be in line with 2006 as the increase in benchmark prices is offset by the stronger Australian dollar. Per-tonne unit production costs are anticipated to be approximately eight percent higher in 2007.
 
3
Portman's estimate of 2007 production is 8.4 million tonnes which includes 0.7 million from Cockatoo Island. Portman's estimate of 2007 sales is 8.2 million tonnes of which 7.65 million tonnes relates to the Koolyanobbing operation.
 
4
PORTMAN LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
 
The directors of Portman Limited ("Portman" or "the Company") submit herewith the financial report of Portman Limited and its subsidiaries ("the Consolidated Entity") for the half-year ended 30 June 2007. In order to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, the directors report as follows:
(a)  Directors
The names of the directors of Portman Limited in office during or since the end of the half-year are:
Joseph A. Carrabba
Laurie Brlas
William R. Calfee
Donald J. Gallagher
David H. Gunning
Malcolm H. Macpherson
Richard R. Mehan
Michael D. Perrott
All directors held office throughout the period except for Laurie Brlas who was appointed on 6 April 2007.
(b) Auditor's Independence Declaration
The auditor's independence declaration is included on page 9.
(c) Review of operations
Iron Ore Division
Koolyanobbing Project
Operations January - June 2007
A new optimal product and associated mine plan schedule has been recently established. Mining ore and waste over the second quarter has been in accordance with that plan.
Computerised modelling of the rail and port network has commenced. The optimal results from the completed simulation exercise are being incorporated into the management plan for this vital area. Portman and the rail operations/owners are working closely together to minimise the effect of rail and track bed upgrades in the near future.
Optimisation work on the crushing and screening plant continues. The plant is capable of throughout in excess of 8 Mtpa.
Production and shipments for the half-year were as follows:
 
 
5
PORTMAN LIMITED
 
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
Cockatoo Island Joint Venture
Operations January - June 2007
Mining has recovered due to lower rainfall.
Good progress has been achieved in harvesting additional reserves during the mining process.
Environmental remediation is expected to commence in the third quarter of 2007.
Production and shipments for the half-year were as follows:
 
All figures shown above are quoted in 100% terms. Portman has a 50% ownership interest in the Cockatoo Island Joint Venture.
 
Exploration
Drilling during the six month period was an even mix of both resource and prospect drilling. Resource drilling focussed on upgrading currently defined inferred material at Koolyanobbing (B, C and D) and Windarling (W1). Prospect testing of outcropping mineralisation was completed at Diemals, Koolyanobbing (G) and Windarling (W2, W5 and W9). Drilling was also completed within K pit to assist with pit slope studies and wall design. A summary of drilling activity is as follows:
 
 
6
PORTMAN LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
Koolyanobbing Project Area
Highlights of analytical results received during the reporting period include the following significant intercepts:
 
 
7
PORTMAN LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
B Deposit - Drilling was targeted on deeper parts of the resource to increase the level of confidence. Drilling was completed during the quarter but assays have not yet been received.
B Deposit North - Drilling was designed to test a conceptual target north of the current pit. No significant mineralisation was intersected.
C Prospect - Drilling was designed to test for continuity between structurally complex mineralised zones and thereby improve the geological resource model. It is planned to incorporate this drilling into a revised resource estimate during the second quarter of 2007.
D Prospect - Drilling was designed to test for a northern extension to this deposit. A number of significant mineralised intersections were obtained beneath the base of the existing Pit. It is doubtful given restricted strike length of mineralisation, that this could be economically extracted.
G Prospect - Drilling was designed to test the extent of mineralisation under shallow cover intersected by earlier drilling. No significant mineralisation was intersected.
Mt Finnerty FIN7 - Drilling was designed to test depth extensions of surface enriched iron formation within the Mt Finnerty JV area 60 kilometres east of Koolyanobbing. Only weak iron enrichment was intersected and no further work is planned on this prospect.
K Deposit North - Drilling during the quarter was targeted on outcropping mineralisation at the northern end of K Pit. Only 3 holes were completed to planned depth because of drilling problems in unconsolidated fill.
Bungalbin Iron Ore Agreement
J5 Prospect - Final results from the 2006 resource drilling programme were received during the quarter. Intercepts below were not included in the recently announced resource.
J4 Prospect - Drilling results were received for the drilling programme completed during 2006 over the eastern one third of the prospect. These have not yet been incorporated into a resource estimate.
Windarling
W1 Prospect - Drilling was carried out to increase confidence in deeper parts of the resource. All assays have been received and significant intercepts have been listed below. It is planned to revise the resource model during the third quarter of 2007.
W9 Prospect - Drilling was targeted on an outcropping mineralised pod located between W1 and W2. Drilling intersected relatively narrow tabular zones of mineralisation. Better intercepts are listed below.
W2 West Prospect - Drilling was designed to test for extensions to mineralisation outside the current open pit. Only one significantly mineralised intercept was achieved which is correlated with discontinuous hanging wall lodes intersected in the open pit. Adjacent holes both along strike and down dip were not significantly mineralised and no further work is proposed on this lode.
W5 South - Drilling was designed to test a mineralised zone in a soil covered area which was exposed by road construction. No significant mineralisation was intersected. Additional ground surveys and drilling are planned to test potential along strike.
Diemals Exploration Licence
Diemals - Drilling was designed to test a series of relatively isolated iron enriched targets in an area of poorly outcropping BIF and greenstone. Assays are outstanding for this programme.
 
8
PORTMAN LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
 
 
 
Mt. Finnerty Project Area
During the half year Portman earned 80% iron ore rights to the project area. Reed Resources elected to retain their 20% interest.
Cockatoo Island Joint Venture
No exploration was carried out during the first six months of 2007. Feasibility work on stage 3 is ongoing.
Corporate
No dividend has been declared for the first half of 2007.
 
(d) Rounding of amounts to nearest thousand dollars
The Consolidated Entity is of the kind specified in Australian Securities and Investments Commission Class Order 98/0100 dated 10 July 1998, and in accordance with that Class Order amounts in the directors' report and the half-year financial report are rounded off to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated.
 
Signed in accordance with a resolution of directors made pursuant to s.306(3) of the Corporations Act 2001.
On behalf of the Directors
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
24 August 2007
Dear Board Members
Portman Limited
In accordance with section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001, I am pleased to provide the following declaration of independence to the directors of Portman Limited.
As lead audit partner for the review of the financial statements of Portman Limited for the half-year ended 30 June 2007, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been no contraventions of:
 
 
 
 
Yours sincerely
  /s/ Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU
 
  /s/ AT Richards
AT Richards
Partner
Chartered Accountants
 
 
 
 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
 
10
 
 
We have reviewed the accompanying half-year financial report of Portman Limited, which comprises the balance sheet as at 30 June 2007, and the income statement, cash flow statement, statement of changes in equity for the half-year ended on that date, selected explanatory notes and the directors' declaration of the consolidated entity comprising the company and the entities it controlled at the end of the half-year or from time to time during the half-year.
Directors' Responsibility for the Half-Year Financial Report
The directors of the company are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the half-year financial report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the . This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the half-year financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Corporations Act 2001
Auditor's Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the half-year financial report based on our review. We conducted our review in accordance with Auditing Standard on Review Engagements ASRE 2410 , in order to state whether, on the basis of the procedures described, we have become aware of any matter that makes us believe that the financial report is not in accordance with the including: giving a true and fair view of the consolidated entity's financial position as at 30 June 2007 and its performance for the half-year ended on that date; and complying with Accounting Standard AASB 134 and the . As the auditor of Portman Limited, ASRE 2410 requires that we comply with the ethical requirements relevant to the audit of the annual financial report.
Review of an Interim Financial Report Performed by the
Independent Auditor of the Entity
Corporations Act 2001
Interim Financial Reporting
Corporations Regulations 2001
A review of a half-year financial report consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion.
Auditor's Independence Declaration
In conducting our review, we have complied with the independence requirements of the .
corporations Act 2001
 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
 
11
 
 
Conclusion
Based on our review, which is not an audit, we have not become aware of any matter that makes us believe that the half-year financial report of Portman Limited is not in accordance with the , including:
Corporations Act 2001
 
 
 
  /s/ Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU
 
  /s/ AT Richards
AT Richards
Partner
Chartered Accountants
Perth, 24 August 2007
 
12
PORTMAN LIMITED
DIRECTORS' DECLARATION
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
The directors declare that:
 
 
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors, made pursuant to s 303(5) of the Corporations Act 2001.
On behalf of the Directors
 
 
13
PORTMAN LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
 
 
 
 
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 17 to 19.
 
14
PORTMAN LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30 JUNE 2007
 
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 17 to 19.
 
15
PORTMAN LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 17 to 19.
 
16
PORTMAN LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2007
* Maturities exceeding 90 days
Notes to the financial statements are included on pages 17 to 19.
 
17
Note 1. Significant accounting policies
Statement of compliance
The condensed half-year financial report is a general purpose financial report prepared in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and AASB 134 Interim Financial Reporting'. Compliance with AASB 134 ensures compliance with International Reporting Standard IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting'. The half-year financial report does not include notes of the type normally included in an annual financial report and shall be read in conjunction with the most recent annual financial report.
Basis of preparation of half-year report
The condensed half-year financial report has been prepared on the basis of historical cost except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments. Cost is based on the fair values of the consideration given in exchange for assets. Except where indicated otherwise, all amounts are presented in Australia dollars.
The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of the half-year financial report are consistent with those of the previous financial year and corresponding interim reporting period.
Adoption of new and revised Accounting Standards
In the current year, the Consolidated Entity has adopted all of the new and revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board (the AASB) that are relevant to its operations and effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007. The adoption of these new and revised Standards and Interpretations has resulted in changes to the Consolidated Entity's policies in the following areas that have affected the amounts reported for the current or prior years:
 
 
The adoption of these new and revised Standards and Interpretations has also resulted in a change to the Group's accounting policies in relation to business combinations involving entities under common control.
Note 2. Profit from Ordinary Activities
 
 
18
Note 2. Profit from Ordinary Activities (continued)
 
Note 3.  Dividends
No dividends were declared in the current and prior period.
Note 4.  Contingencies
1. In July 2007 Portman was notified that its exploration and mining rights under two leases originally granted by Polaris Metals NL (Polaris) in 1999 would not be extended beyond 3 July 2007. The mining leases permit Portman to explore for and mine iron ore on mining tenements north of Portman's Koolyanobbing operations, including the rights to 4.5 million tonnes of iron ore resources. Portman has advised Polaris that it does not agree that its rights have ceased, or that Polaris is entitled to ownership of the two mining leases. At this point in time it is not possible to assess the impact of the potential loss of the reserves on Portman's operations.
2. In May 2007 Western Australia's Environmental Protection Authority ("EPA") published a study in which it recommended the establishment of "A class reserves" for the protection of certain allegedly environmentally sensitive areas of Western Australia. Some of the proposed A class reserves overlap with mining tenements granted to Portman (the "Overlapping Areas"). The EPA study has been submitted to the Minister for the Environment and Heritage.
Portman originally received governmental approval to mine in the Overlapping Areas in June 2003. Since that time, Portman has met all applicable environmental requirements. Although we are currently reviewing the study and the effects of the designation of the Overlapping Areas as A class reserves, such categorisation would be likely to have a material effect on Portman's operations. It is unknown at this time whether the Minister for the Environment and Heritage will accept the recommendations of the EPA. Portman is currently in dialogue with Government in regards to this issue.
 
19
Note 5. Subsequent Events
At 13 August 2007 the Portman Iron Ore Ltd signed a Deed of Release for $650 thousand with Australian Western Railroad Pty Ltd ("AWR"), a subsidiary of the Australian Railroad Group ("ARG"), to settle the claim against AWR for damage to a rotary car dumper.
Note 6. Segment Information
(a)  Business Segment
The Consolidated Entity operates in one business segment - iron ore mining and exploration.
(b)  Geographic Segment
The Consolidated Entity operates in one geographic segment - Australia.
 
Note 7.  Joint Venture
The Consolidated Entity has a 50% joint venture interest in the Cockatoo Iron Ore Joint Venture. The Consolidated Entity's share of the results of this joint venture has been included in the Income Statement to 30 June 2007.
 
 
20


