FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20081015154833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Cleveland-Cliffs Inc issued a news release dated October 15, 2008 as follows: Cleveland-Cliffs Inc Is Now Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. CLEVELAND  Oct. 15, 2008  Cleveland-Cliffs Inc (NYSE: CLF), an international mining company, today announced that it has changed its name to Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. Its ticker symbol will remain the same. In addition to the name change, the Company also announced the formal adoption of "Cliffs," the one-word name by which it is commonly known, and introduced a new visual identity, including a new corporate logo. The new blue and green logo is suggestive of a cliff and its reflection in water, as well as the Companys core mining business, which operates above ground and below. It also serves as a reminder of Cliffs long-standing commitment to sustainable development. "Our Company has entered a new era characterized by global expansion and mineral diversification," said Joseph A. Carrabba, chairman, pre sident and chief executive officer. "Today, in addition to our North American mining ventures, we operate in Latin America and Australia, and sell into Asian and European markets. We believe the new corporate brand more accurately reflects the scope and diversity of our current operations and strategic direction while, at the same time, honors our over 160-year heritage in service to the steelmaking industry." The Company is launching the brand with a redesigned website, employee events and advertisements in national and international financial publications, as well as local and trade media. ABOUT CLIFFS NATURAL RESOURCES INC. Cliffs Natural Resources Inc., headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is an international mining company, the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America and a major supplier of metallurgical coal to the global steelmaking industry. The Company operates six iron ore mines in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada, and three coking coal mines in West Virginia and Alabama. Cliffs is also majority owner of Portman Limited, a large iron ore mining company in Australia, serving the Asian iron ore markets with direct-shipping fines and lump ore. In addition, the Company has a 30% interest in the Amap Project, a Brazilian iron ore project, and a 45% economic interest in the Sonoma Project, an Australian coking and thermal coal project. To be added to Cliffs Natural Resources e-mail distribution list, please click on the link below: http://www.cpg-llc.com/clearsite/clf/emailoptin.html News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at: http://www.cliffsnaturalresources.com or www.cliffsnaturalresources.com/Investors/Pages/default.aspx?b=1041&1=1 SOURCE: Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. CONTACT: Steve Baisden Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications (216) 694-5280 steve.baisden@cliffsnr.com
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


