FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20090505170839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Cliffs Natural Resources published a local news release on May 5, 2009 as follows: Production Shutdown Extended at Northshore Mining CLEVELAND, OH May 5, 2009 --Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (NYSE:CLF) (Paris: CLF), today announced the current shutdown at its Northshore Mining Company will be extended through early July, 2009. Northshore Mining is located in Silver Bay and Babbitt, Minn. Northshore initiated a six-week shutdown in April, reducing production to approximately 3.7 million tons in 2009. Todays announced operations curtailment will reduce 2009 projected pellet production to approximately 3.2 million tons. "This is an unfortunate, but necessary action as a result of the reduced industry demand for iron ore pellets," said Donald J. Gallagher, president of Cliffs Natural Resources North American Business Unit. "As a result of the global economic downturn and its effect on our business, we must keep production in line with current demand to ensure the l ong-term success of Northshore Mining Company." Due to the production curtailment and extended idling of the facility, workforce adjustments will be required. Currently, Northshore has 120 employees on layoff status with another 280 anticipated to be placed on layoff on May 10, 2009. There will be some employees remaining at the facility during the extended shutdown to continue pellet shipping, perform maintenance and for other non-pellet production functions. The company will offer affected employees the option to volunteer for layoff. "We are committed to open and timely communications with our dedicated workforce and the employees have shown their commitment to the facility throughout these challenging economic times." stated Mike Mlinar, vice president and general manager of Northshore Mining Company. Northshore Mining Company, a wholly-owned Cliffs Natural Resources subsidiary, has the capability to produce 5.8 million tons annually when operated at its rated capacity. About Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. Cliffs Natural Resources (NYSE: CLF) (Paris: CLF) is an international mining and natural resources company. We are the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America, a major supplier of direct-shipping lump and fines iron ore out of Australia and a significant producer of metallurgical coal. With core values of environmental and capital stewardship, our colleagues across the globe endeavor to provide all stakeholders operating and financial transparency as embodied in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Our Company is organized through three geographic business units: The North American business unit is comprised of six iron ore mines owned or managed in Michigan, Minnesota and Eastern Canada, and two coking coal mining complexes located in West Virginia and Alabama. The Asia Pacific business unit is comprised of two iron ore mining complexes in Western Australia and a 45% economic interest in a coking and thermal coal mine in Q ueensland, Australia. The South American business unit includes a 30% interest in the Amap Project, an iron ore project in the state of Amap in Brazil, as well as a number of smaller greenfield projects not yet in production. Over recent years, Cliffs has been executing a strategy designed to achieve scale in the mining industry and focused on serving the worlds largest and fastest growing steel markets. "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from such statements for a variety of reasons, including: the impact of the global economic cri sis on the North American and global integrated steel industry; the length and extent of any potential and current production curtailments at both our customers facility and at our iron ore and coal mining operations; changes in the sales volumes or mix; the impact of any decreases in international prices for iron ore and/or metallurgical coal resulting from the global economic crisis the impact of price-adjustment factors on the Company's sales contracts; changes in demand for iron ore pellets by North American integrated steel producers, or changes in Asian iron ore demand due to changes in steel utilization rates, operational factors, electric furnace production or imports into the United States and Canada of semi-finished steel or pig iron; the impact of consolidation and rationalization in the steel industry; availability of capital equipment and component parts; availability of float capacity; the impact of the global economic crisis on our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and on our abil ity to access capital market changes in the financial condition of the Company's partners and/or customers; rejection of major contracts and/or venture agreements by customers and/or participants under provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar statutes in other countries; events or circumstances that could impair or adversely impact the viability of a mine and the carrying value of associated assets; inability to achieve expected production levels; reductions in current resource estimates; failure to receive or maintain required environmental permits; problems with productivity, labor disputes, weather conditions, fluctuations in ore grade, tons mined, changes in cost factors including energy costs, transportation, mine closure obligations and employee benefit costs; the ability to identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisition candidates and the effect of these various risks on the Company's future cash flows, debt levels, liquidity and financial position. Reference is also made to th e detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, set forth in the Company's Annual Report and Reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cliffs Natural Resources' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superseded by subsequent events. SOURCE: Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at: http://www.cliffsnaturalresources.com or www.cliffsnaturalresources.com/Investors/Pages/default.aspx?b=1041&1=1 To be added to Cliffs Natural Resources e-mail distribution list, please click on the link below: http://www.cpg-llc.com/clearsite/clf/emailoptin.html SOURCE: Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. MEDIA CONTACT: Maureen Talarico District Manager-Public Affairs Minnesota 218-279-6120 (office) 218-341-1331 (cell) Maureen.Talarico@Cliffsnr.com
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


