FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20110606160148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, which was originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2011 (the "Original 8-K"), amends and restates in its entirety Item 9.01 of the Original 8-K to include the financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01 with respect to the acquisition of Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited ("Consolidated Thompson") by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. through a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary on May 12, 2011. The remainder of the information contained in the Original 8-K is not hereby amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following audited financial statements of Consolidated Thompson are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and are incorporated herein by reference:
Consolidated balance sheets as at December 31, 2010 and 2009;
Consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008;
Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008;
Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008; and
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements are filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report and are incorporated herein by reference:
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of March 31, 2011;
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and for the three months ended March 31, 2011; and
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
The Board of Directors
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-30391, No. 333-56661, No. 333-06049, No. 333-84479, No. 333-64008, No. 333-165021, and No. 333-172649) and on Form S-3 (No. 333-153873, No. 333-153890, and No. 333-159162) of Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. of our report dated March 9, 2011 except for Note 25 which is dated May 13, 2011, to the Board of Directors of Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited as at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, which report appears in the Form 8-K/A of Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. dated June 6, 2011.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Chartered Accountants
Montral, Canada
June 6, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Board of Directors
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited (the "Company") as at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 in conformity with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ KPMG LLP *
Chartered Accountants
Montral, Canada
March 9, 2011, except as to note 25 which is dated May 13, 2011
 
 
 
Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors:
, Director , Director
Signed "Hon. Brian V. Tobin"
Signed "Bernard Wilson, FCA"
 
 
 
 
Supplemental information (Note 11)
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited (the "Corporation", or "Consolidated Thompson") is a mining company with mineral exploration and development activities focused on iron ore. Based in Montral, Canada, it has iron ore rich mining properties in the well known Labrador Trough that spans North-Eastern Qubec and Western Newfoundland and Labrador. The Corporation began producing iron ore concentrate in 2010 at its Bloom Lake mine and its initial sales were recorded in the second quarter of 2010. The Company is moving towards an initial production rate of 8.0 million tonnes per year of high quality iron ore concentrate. The Bloom Lake mine is located near the city of Fermont, in the Province of Qubec, Canada.
The Corporation relies heavily on a small number of significant customers, including one customer that represents 50% of the Corporation's expected output of 8 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate per year (that customer also being a shareholder of the Corporation and owning 25% of The Bloom Lake Iron Ore Mines Limited Partnership ("Bloom Lake LP") (Note 15)). As a result of this reliance on a small number of customers, the Corporation could be subject to adverse consequences if any of these customers breaches its purchase commitments.
The Corporation also relies on two main rail transportation suppliers to haul iron ore concentrate on a distance of approximately 500 kilometres. Shipping products to customers, recognizing revenues and generating profits is dependent on the products being hauled by these suppliers. Any disruption in their services could affect the operations and profitability of the Corporation. Long-term contracts were signed with these suppliers to secure services. However, if any of these suppliers would breach their commitments, the Corporation could be subject to adverse consequences.
As at December 31, 2010, with sales generating significant positive cash flows, the Corporation believes it has access to sufficient liquidities to ramp-up its production to its projected annualized output of 8 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate, to finance its capital investments and for working capital.
 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which include the following significant accounting policies.
 
These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Corporation and its subsidiaries Bloom Lake LP, 75% owned, which was created on July 23, 2009, and Quinto Mining Corporation ("Quinto"), 100% owned, which was acquired on June 27, 2008. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Such estimates and assumptions affect the carrying value of assets as well as the evaluation of asset retirement obligations and reclamation costs and impact decisions as to when exploration and development
 
 
costs should be capitalized, amortized or expensed. Other significant estimates made by the Corporation include ore reserves and resources, factors affecting valuations of stock-based compensation, valuation allowance determination on future income tax assets and amortization periods of mining properties. The Corporation regularly reviews its estimates and assumptions. However, actual results could differ from these estimates and these differences could be material.
 
Monetary assets and liabilities of the Corporation's operations denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar are translated into Canadian dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet dates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates prevailing at each transaction date. Revenue and expenses are translated at average exchange rates throughout the reporting period, with the exception of depreciation, depletion and amortization which is translated at historical exchange rates. Gains and losses on translation of foreign currencies are included in earnings.
 
Cash and cash equivalents are comprised of unrestricted cash on hand and highly liquid investments with a maturity date of three months or less from the date of acquisition. As of December 31, 2010, cash equivalents bear interest at rates ranging between 0.7% and 1.1% in Canadian dollars and at 0.1% in US dollars.
 
Iron ore concentrate inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost of iron ore concentrate inventories is increased based on the production costs including the cost of materials, labour, operating supplies, sub-contractors expenses, mine site production overheads and amortization to the applicable stage of processing, and decreases in iron ore concentrate inventories are charged back to processing costs using the weighted average cost per tonne.
Ore stockpiles are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost of ore stockpiles is increased based on the related current mining cost of the period, and decreases in ore stockpiles are charged back to processing costs using the weighted average cost per tonne.
Mine supplies are valued at the lower of average purchase cost and net realizable value.
If there is a recovery in the net realizable value, the inventories are written back up.
 
 
Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization and are amortized based on their useful lives, as shown in the table below, except that for assets under capital leases, the amortization period may not exceed the term of the lease.
 
Mining costs associated with stripping activities are expensed unless the stripping activity can be shown to represent a betterment to the mineral property which requires such costs be capitalized. Capitalized stripping costs are amortized over the reserves that directly benefit from the stripping activity on a units-of-production basis.
 
Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss must be recognized if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. In that event, the asset must be written down to its fair value and an impairment loss is recorded in earnings. Net estimated future cash flows from each long-lived asset are calculated based on anticipated future production (proven and probable reserves as well as value beyond proven and probable reserves), estimated iron ore prices, operating costs, capital expenditures and site restoration expenses. Management's estimate of future cash flows is subject to risk and uncertainties and it is reasonably possible that changes could occur with evolving economic conditions, which may affect the recoverability of the Corporation's long-lived assets and may have a material effect on the Corporation's results of operations and financial position.
 
Exploration and development expenses relating to properties in which the Corporation has an interest are deferred until the properties are brought into production, at which time they are amortized on a unit-of-production basis. Other general exploration expenses are charged to operations as incurred. The cost of properties abandoned or sold and their related deferred exploration costs are expensed to operations in the year of abandonment or sale.
 
 
Costs include the cash consideration and the fair value of the shares issued for the acquisition of properties. Properties acquired under option agreements or by joint ventures, whereby payments are made at the sole discretion of the Corporation, are recorded in the accounts at the time of payment.
The Corporation reviews capitalized costs on its properties on a periodic basis and will recognize impairment in value based upon current exploration or production results, if any, and upon management's assessment of the recoverability of the cost of the properties from the future undiscounted cash flows and/or the proceeds from their disposal.
The Corporation qualifies for certain exploration tax credits associated with the exploration and development of its properties located in Qubec. Recoverable amounts are offset against deferred exploration costs incurred when the Corporation has complied with the terms and conditions of the program and the amount of government assistance is reasonably assured.
 
The Corporation is required to record a liability for the estimated future costs associated with legal obligations relating to the reclamation and closure of its mineral exploration and development properties. This amount is initially recorded at its discounted value using the Corporation credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate with subsequent annual recognition of an accretion amount on the discounted liability. An equivalent amount is recorded as an increase to mineral exploration and development properties and amortized over the useful life of the properties using the unit-of-production basis. The liability is adjusted at the end of each period to reflect the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligation with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the related long-lived asset.
 
The Corporation follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the estimated tax consequences attributable to differences between the amounts reported in the financial statements of the Corporation and their respective tax bases, using enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. The effect of a change in income tax rates on future tax liabilities and assets is recognized in income in the year when the change is enacted or substantively enacted. The Company provides a valuation allowance for future tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the future tax assets will not be realized.
 
The Corporation has stock-based compensation plans which are described in Note 18. For stock option awards, the Corporation applies the fair value based method of accounting. Under this method, the fair value of the stock options at the date of grant is amortized over the vesting period, with the offsetting credit to contributed surplus. When stock options are exercised, the proceeds are credited to common shares, together with related portion previously recorded to contributed surplus.
Performance share units ("PSU") are recognized in compensation expense and accrued liabilities when it is probable that the performance will be achieved. PSU are re-measured at each reporting period, until settlement, using the trading price of the underlying shares at the end the period. The liability is adjusted at the end of each period to reflect the lapse of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligations.
 
 
Revenue from the sale of iron ore is recognized when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an executed sales agreement, indicating there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, no further work or processing is required by the Corporation, the quantity and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. This is generally when the title passes.
In the majority of sales of iron ore concentrate, sales agreements specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date the goods are delivered to the shipping agent. For such sales, revenue is recognized on the bill of lading date.
In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by the customer (for instance an assay for mineral content), revenue recognition is based on the most recently determined estimate of product specifications.
 
Basic earnings (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of the Corporation's common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by using the treasury stock method and the "if-converted" method. The treasury stock method assumes that any proceeds obtained on exercise of options and warrants, including unrecognized compensation costs of stock-based compensation, would be used to purchase common shares of the Corporation at the average market price during the period. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding is then adjusted by the difference between the number of common shares issued from the exercise of options and warrants and common shares repurchased from the related proceeds. If the Corporation has a net loss, diluted loss per share is calculated using the basic weighted average shares outstanding because to do otherwise would be anti-dilutive.
The dilutive effect of the convertible debentures is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the "if-converted" method, if dilutive. Under the "if-converted" method, convertible debentures are assumed to have been converted at the beginning of the period (or at time of issuance, if later) and the resulting common shares are included in the denominator for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share. Net income (loss) is also adjusted to remove the financial expense (net of taxes) recorded during the year in relation to the convertible debentures.
 
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one contract party and a financial liability or equity instrument of another party. Financial instruments are recognized on the balance sheet when the Corporation becomes party to the contractual obligations of the instrument.
Financial instruments, including derivatives, are included on the balance sheet and are measured at their fair value with the exception of loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and other financial liabilities, which are measured at amortized cost. Subsequent measurement and recognition of changes in fair values of financial instruments depend on their initial classification. Held-for-trading financial assets are measured at fair value and all gains and losses are included in net income in the period in which they arise. Available-for-sale financial instruments are measured at fair value with revaluation gains and losses included in other comprehensive income until the assets are removed from the balance sheet.
 
 
The classification of the Corporation's financial instruments in the various categories is presented in the following table:
 
Financial instruments that comprise a liability component and an equity component are classified separately on the balance sheet on initial recognition in accordance with the substance of the contractual obligations.
Derivatives instruments, including embedded derivatives, are recorded as either assets or liabilities and are measured at their fair value unless exempted from derivative treatment as a normal purchase and sale. All changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Corporation did not have any derivative instruments.
 
 
Stock-based Compensation
On April 1, 2010, the Corporation decided to change its method of accounting for fair value of common share stock options issued to directors, officers, key employees and consultants. Under the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants ("CICA") Handbook ("HB") Section 3870, , the fair value of a stock-option award having different vesting dates can be calculated as one award or several separate awards, each award with different expected lives for options that vest each year. For example, compensation cost for an award with a graded vesting schedule, such as an award that vests 33 percent per year over three years, is accrued as if the grant were a series of awards rather than a single award. Each award in the series is accounted for as if it had its own separate service period and vesting date. In the past, the Corporation calculated the fair value of stock option award as one award, even if it had different vesting periods and recorded expense on a straight-line basis. This change in accounting policy did not have a material impact on the stock-options issued prior to April 1, 2010. This accounting policy conforms to the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") to be applied to stock-based compensation beginning on January 1, 2011.
Stock-based Compensation and Other Stock-based Payments
 
 
 
In January 2009, the CICA issued HB Section 1582, , replacing Section 1581, . The previous Section was removed in order to adopt the relevant extracts of the IFRS 3, . The new Section establishes standards for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of business combinations.
Business Combinations
Business Combinations
Business Combinations
This new standard is applicable to business combinations realized during fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. This new Section requires that most identifiable assets, liabilities, non-controlling interests and goodwill acquired in a business combination be recorded at "full fair value" and that liabilities associated with restructuring or exit activities be recognized only if they meet the definition of a liability as of the acquisition date. In addition, direct acquisition costs must be expensed when incurred. This new standard will have no impact on the current consolidated financial statements.
 
Section 1601, , replaces and carries forward existing guidance from Section 1600, , on the aspects of the preparation of consolidated financial statements subsequent to a business combination other than non-controlling interests.
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements
Section 1602, , provides guidance on accounting for non-controlling interests subsequent to a business combination. This Section replicates the provisions of International Accounting Standard 27 ("IAS 27"), , other than the disclosure requirements. Under this new Section, non-controlling interests in subsidiaries must be presented in the consolidated balance sheet with equity, but separated from the parent shareholders' equity. In the statements of operations, a non-controlling interest must not be deducted in arriving at the consolidated net income, but must be allocated to the controlling interest and the non-controlling interest according to their percentage of ownership.
Non-controlling interests
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
Sections 1601 and 1602 must be implemented concurrently with Section 1582, , discussed above. Both Sections are applicable for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011 with earlier adoption permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year. Section 1602 is to be applied retrospectively, with certain exceptions, which will have an impact for the Corporation on the presentation of the non-controlling interest in the financial statements as described above. Section 1601 will have no impact on these consolidated financial statements.
Business Combinations
 
In February 2008, the Canadian Accounting Standards Board ("AcSB") confirmed that publicly accountable enterprises would be required to apply, and report in accordance with IFRS, in full and without modification, effective in fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011 (the "Changeover date"). In the Corporation's reporting in those periods following the Changeover date, the Corporation will be required to present comparative data for equivalent periods in the previous fiscal year, making January 1, 2010 the "Transition" date for the Corporation. The Corporation will implement these standards in its first quarter of fiscal year 2011.
 
 
In January 2008, the Corporation participated as an investor in a non-brokered private placement of Quinto acquiring five million units of Quinto at a price of $0.65 per unit. Each unit consisted of one common share and one-half of one common share purchase warrant of Quinto, with each whole warrant exercisable to purchase one additional common share for $1.00 per share at any time prior to January 10, 2010.
On April 21, 2008, the Corporation announced it had signed a letter of agreement with Quinto, whereby the Corporation would acquire all of the outstanding shares of Quinto in exchange for common shares of Consolidated Thompson (the "Transaction"). The Transaction was completed on June 27, 2008 and the Corporation issued 14,291,789 common shares valued at $8.66 per share (closing price of the Corporation's shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange on the date of completion) and made cash payments of $71,000 to former Quinto shareholders. Outstanding Quinto options were exchanged for replacement Consolidated Thompson options on the same basis as the exchange of the Quinto shares for Consolidated Thompson shares. In addition, upon exercising Quinto common share purchase warrants, the holders of the warrants will receive Consolidated Thompson shares and cash on same basis as the exchange of Quinto shares for Consolidated Thompson shares. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase of assets.
Quinto's assets included two iron properties in Qubec, Peppler Lake and Lamle, and the Lac Gueret graphite property, also in Qubec.
The purchase price was calculated as follows:
 
Net assets acquired:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table details the fair value of the investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization expense of $20,000,000 ($921,000 in 2009 and $77,000 in 2008) was recognized and recorded during 2010 in the consolidated statement of operations. In 2010, with the operations starting at the Bloom Lake mine, an amount of $959,430,000 was transferred from mineral exploration and development properties to mining assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table shows the components of the interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal repayments on capital lease obligations in each of the next five years and thereafter amount to:
 
 
 
On November 29, 2010, the Corporation issued US$230 million of convertible unsecured debentures. The convertible debentures mature on November 30, 2017 and bear interest at a rate of 5.0% per annum, payable semi-annually on May 31 and November 30 of each year. The convertible debentures may be converted at any time, at the option of the holder, into common shares of the Corporation at a conversion rate of approximately 65.6 common shares per US$1,000 principal amount of convertible debentures based on a conversion price of US$15.2439 per common share. On or after November 29, 2013 and until maturity, the Corporation may, at its option, redeem the convertible debentures at par plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that the weighted average closing price of the Corporation's common shares on the TSX during the last 30 consecutive trading days is at least 125% of the conversion price. The Corporation may also, at its option and subject to certain conditions, elect to satisfy its obligation to repay all or any portion of the principal amounts and interest of the convertible debentures that are to be redeemed or repaid at maturity, by issuing common shares. The number of common shares a holder will receive in respect of each convertible debenture will be determined by dividing the principal amount of the convertible debentures that are to be redeemed or repaid at maturity by 95% of the market price of the common shares. The conversion option was assigned a residual value of $53.3 million, net of transactions costs of $2.5 million allocated to the conversion option, and is included in shareholder's equity. The liability portion is being accreted such that the liability at maturity will equal the nominal amount of the convertible debentures. Considering the amortization of the conversion option and the debt issue costs, the effective interest rate of the convertible debentures is 10.6%. In 2010, the Corporation recorded an accretion expense of $548,000 (nil in 2009 and 2008) on the convertible debentures presented in the interest expense.
 
 
The Corporation's activities are subject to various laws and regulations regarding the environmental restoration and closure provisions for which the Corporation estimates future costs. The provision may be revised on the basis of amendments to such laws and regulations and the availability of new information such as changes in reserves corresponding to a change in the mine life, acquisition or construction of a new mine. The Corporation has recorded a liability for asset retirement obligations of $8,035,000 at December 31, 2010 ($2,619,000 at December 31, 2009). These obligations consist of costs associated with reclamation and monitoring activities and the removal of tangible assets at the Corporation's Bloom Lake site.
In 2009, the Corporation determined that the amount required to settle its asset retirement obligations was $28,600,000 (based on current dollars), mainly paid near the closure of the mine. During 2010, the timing of the future cash flows was revised to provide for a progressive rehabilitation of the mine site, specifically for tailing disposal areas, with the other closure costs mainly paid near the closure of the mine. This change resulted in an increase of $3,656,000 of the asset retirement obligation. The estimated future cash flows required were also increased by $3,260,000 (based on current dollars) following the approval of the reclamation plan by the Ministre des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune du Qubec. This change resulted in an increase of $1,206,000 of the asset retirement obligation.
These estimated future cash flows are projected in the future using an inflation rate of 2.5%, and discounted back using a credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate of 8.5% in the case of the initial provision, and 7.0% in the case of the increase in the amount in 2010. The estimated closure date is determined based on the remaining economic iron ore reserves under the existing mining plan based on the initial production rate of 8.0 million tonnes per year of iron ore concentrate.
An accretion expense of $554,000 (nil in 2009 and 2008) has been recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in 2010.
 
On July 20, 2009, the Corporation closed a definitive subscription agreement with Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Corporation ("WISCO") whereby WISCO agreed to pay the Corporation US$240 million in exchange for 38,681,023 common shares of the Corporation issued at $2.72, which represented approximately 19.9% of the issued shares on a post-investment basis, and an interest of 25% in the limited partnership established to operate the Bloom Lake mine, The Bloom Lake Iron Ore Mine Limited Partnership ("Bloom Lake LP"). A first payment of US$200 million was made on July 20, 2009 by WISCO as payment for the common shares issued by the Corporation and the 25% interest in the limited partnership. A second payment of US$30 million was made on May 25, 2010 upon commencement of the commercial production at the Bloom Lake mine as defined in the subscription agreement. The balance of the investment by WISCO in the limited partnership in the amount of US$10 million will be payable upon the mine reaching an annualized production rate of 8 million tonnes per year of iron ore concentrate for three consecutive months. WISCO has committed to purchase at fair market value for the mine life 4 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate per year.
 
 
Authorized:
Unlimited common shares
Unlimited Class A preferred shares, issuable in series
Common shares issued:
The following are the common share transactions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
On September 17, 2009, the Corporation closed a private placement financing consisting of 32,775,000 common shares at a price of $4.40 per common share, including the exercise of an over-allotment option of 4,275,000 common shares, for aggregate gross proceeds of $144,210,000. As consideration, the underwriters received a cash commission of 4.0% ($5,768,000) of the total gross proceeds. Total share issue costs were $6,155,000.
 
 
 
The following are the warrant transactions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
 
 
As a result, 3,088,343 warrants were issued with an exercise price of $4.05 and an expiry date that is two years from the date of issue. These warrants were valued at $5,437,000 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and were expensed under on the consolidated statement of operations.
General and administrative expenses
 
As of December 31, 2010, the following warrants were outstanding and exercisable:
 
 
Stock Option Plan
The Corporation has a stock option plan established with the intent of advancing the interests of the Corporation by encouraging and enabling the acquisition of an equity interest by directors, officers, key employees and consultants. The aggregate maximum number of common shares that could be issued under the stock option plan is 23,059,066. The options are non-assignable and may be granted for a term not exceeding ten years. The exercise price of the options is fixed by the board of directors of the Corporation and such exercise price shall not be lower than the closing market price on the day preceding the date of the grant, subject to all applicable regulatory requirements. The stock option plan contains vesting acceleration provisions in the event of a change of control of the Corporation.
 
 
The following are the stock option transactions during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
Following Quinto's acquisition by the Corporation in 2008, all of the outstanding stock options of Quinto were exchanged for stock options of the Corporation at an exchange ratio of five stock options of Quinto for one stock option of the Corporation. The options were valued at $5,277,000 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and have been included as part of the acquisition cost of Quinto, as outlined in Note 4.
As of December 31, 2010, the following stock options were outstanding and exercisable:
 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, 3,185,675 stock options (10,310,000 in 2009 and 4,675,000 in 2008) were granted to directors, officers, employees and consultants of the Corporation. The options issued in December 2010 vest in December 2013, and options issued during the year, prior to December, either vest immediately, subject to a four-month hold period, or vest on December 31, 2012, or vest in three equal instalments over a period of two years, with the first instalment vesting on the date of grant and the second and third instalments vesting on the first and second anniversary of the date of grant, respectively. The options issued during the last two quarters of 2009 vest in three equal instalments over a period of two years, with the first instalment vesting on the date of grant and the second and third instalments vesting on the first and second anniversary of the date of grant, respectively. The options issued before July 1, 2009 vested immediately, subject to a four-month hold period.
 
 
The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
 
An expense of $9,020,000 ($12,223,000 in 2009 and 15,924,000 in 2008) for the option issued was recorded under stock-based compensation in the consolidated statement of operations, with a corresponding increase in contributed surplus.
Performance Share Units ("PSUs")
In June 2010, the Corporation established a Performance Share Unit Plan (the "PSU Plan") with the intent of advancing the interests of the Corporation in allowing certain designated executives and officers to participate in the long term success of the Corporation and to promote a greater alignment of their interests with the interests of the Corporation's shareholders. The PSU Plan is non-dilutive and awards under the plan will be settled in cash on the vesting date based on the percentage of achievement (not exceeding 200%) of the performance objective set by the Board at the time of the grant, and the value of the common shares of the Corporation on the vesting date. In 2010, a total of 521,100 PSUs were issued under the PSU Plan. A tranche of 304,700 PSUs will vest in December 2012 and a second tranche of 216,400 PSUs will vest in December 2013. In both cases, the vesting will be subject to the achievement of the performance objectives determined by the Board. The PSU Plan contains vesting acceleration provisions in the event of a change of control of the Corporation.
At the end of each reporting period, the progress towards the achievement of the established objectives is considered to estimate the liability to be recorded. An expense of $941,000 (nil in 2009 and 2008) was recorded with a corresponding liability as of December 31, 2010 in relation to the outstanding PSUs.
 
 
The information in this note includes the income tax assets and liabilities of the Corporation and its corporate wholly-owned subsidiaries, and its proportionate share of the future tax assets and liabilities derived from the temporary differences of Bloom Lake LP.
 
Major items causing the Corporation's income tax rate to differ from the Canadian combined federal and provincial statutory rate of approximately 29.9% (30.9% in 2009) are as follows:
 
The provision for mining and income taxes (recovery) is made up of the following components:
 
 
 
The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to future income and mining tax assets and liabilities in Canada approximates the following:
 
The current and long term future tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
 
 
On the date of acquisition, June 27, 2008, Quinto had net future tax assets of $5,760,000, which were entirely offset by a valuation allowance
 
 
The Corporation has respectively approximately $136,341,000 and $136,037,000 ($57,617,000 and $57,400,000 at December 31, 2009) of federal and provincial non-capital loss carry forwards for income tax purposes. These losses are available to reduce future years' taxable income and expire as follows:
 
The Corporation has respectively approximately $41,907,000 and $52,010,000 ($41,945,000 and $52,048,000 at December 31, 2009) of federal and provincial Canadian development and exploration expenditures ("CDEE"), which, under certain circumstances, may be utilized to reduce the taxable income of future years.
These above non-capital losses carry forwards and CDEE may translate into future tax assets amounting to $36,639,000 and $2,790,000 respectively. These amounts have been recognized on the balance sheet, except for a portion of $5,507,000 related to Quinto Mining Corporation that is not more likely than not to be realized.
 
Earnings per share ("EPS") has been calculated using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated based on the treasury stock method and the "if-converted" method.
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation's objective in managing capital is to ensure sufficient liquidity to pursue its organic growth strategy and undertake selective acquisitions, while at the same time taking a conservative approach towards financial leverage and management of financial risks.
The Corporation's current capital is composed of cash and cash equivalents, long-term debt, convertible debentures and shareholders' equity. Prior to 2010, the Corporation's primary use of capital was to finance the development, setting in production and continued exploration of its Bloom Lake property. The Corporation has funded construction of the Bloom Lake mine and mill and the related port and rail infrastructures with the issuance of common shares through private placements, public financings and a partnership agreement with WISCO, and more recently with long-term debt.
As the Corporation began producing iron ore concentrate in 2010 at its Bloom Lake mine and recorded its initial sales in the second quarter of 2010, it has been generating positive cash flow from operations. The Corporation's primary use of capital has evolved to focus on the expansion of its Bloom Lake operations to a targeted production rate of 16.0 million tonnes per year of iron ore concentrate, the continued exploration of its Bloom Lake and the Lamle-Peppler properties, and the undertaking of selective business acquisitions.
The Corporation sets the amount of capital in relation to its on-going and potential projects and/or acquisitions as well as in proportion to risks. The Corporation manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Corporation may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, issue debt or sell assets to raise capital or reduce debt.
The Corporation does not currently pay dividends. With the Bloom Lake mine now in operation and generating positive cash flows, the Corporation will periodically evaluate the merits of introducing a dividend, taking into account the projected use of capital described above.
The Corporation is not subject to any capital requirements imposed by a regulator.
 
 
The fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged between willing parties, based on current markets for instruments with the same risk, principal and remaining maturity. Fair value estimates are made at the balance sheet date, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties in significant matters of judgment and, therefore, cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates.
 
 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts included in the balance sheet, are as follows:
 
The Corporation has determined that the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, amounts receivable and accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their respective carrying value at the balance sheet dates due to the relatively short periods to maturity of those instruments. The fair value of the long-term investments and the convertible debentures is determined using the closing quoted price on a recognized securities exchange at the balance sheet dates. The fair value of the long-term debt is evaluated based on market rates prevailing at the balance sheet date for similar financial instruments.
As of December 31, 2010, the different levels of valuation method are defined as follows:
 
The fair value of cash and long-term investments was measured using Level 1 inputs. Cash equivalents were measured using Level 2 inputs.
 
The following components of income and expense relating to financial instruments are included in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income:
 
Interest income on held-for-trading financial assets consists of interest earned from cash and cash equivalents and totalled $514,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 ($2,196,000 in 2009 and $8,742,000 in 2008).
 
 
Foreign exchange gains (loss) are related to financial assets and liabilities and arise mainly from cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash equivalents and long-term debt and convertible debentures denominated in United States ("U.S.") dollars as well as from accounts receivables and accounts payable and accrued liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars and in EURO.
 
This section provides disclosures relating to the nature and extent of the Corporation's exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk and how the Corporation manages those risks.
 
Credit risk is the risk of an unexpected loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises primarily from the Corporation's cash and cash equivalents as well as from amounts receivable and long-term advances. The Corporation manages its credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents by dealing only with highly-rated Canadian financial institutions. For amounts receivable composed of sales tax receivable, government credits receivable as well as other amounts to be reimbursed by the Canadian federal and provincial governments, the credit risk is considered insignificant. For amounts receivable related to the sale of iron ore concentrate, the Corporation manages its credit risk by requiring letters of credit issued by creditworthy financial institutions covering the full value of each shipment of iron ore concentrate and received prior to such shipment. The contractual agreement with the three customers of the Corporation provides for this requirement. With regards to the long-term advances, a credit assessment was performed on the suppliers which assessed the risk to the Corporation as being minimal.
The carrying amount of financial assets, as disclosed in 21 a), represents the Corporation's maximum credit exposure.
 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Corporation will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Corporation manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring actual and projected cash flows, taking into account the capital requirements related to the construction and expansion of its Bloom Lake property and the exploration and development of its other properties. The Board of Directors reviews and approves any material transactions out of the ordinary course of business, including proposals on mergers, acquisitions or other major investments or divestitures. The Corporation also manages liquidity risk through the management of its capital structure and financial leverage as outlined in Note 21. Historically, the Corporation has financed its exploration programs and mining development activities through the issuances of common shares, long-term debt and convertible debentures.
 
 
The following are the contractual maturities of the financial liabilities:
 
 
On December 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents amounted to $234.1 million. In addition, the Corporation may access an amount of $214.8 million available under its revolving senior secured credit facility (see Note 12).
 
The majority of the Corporation's pre-production cash flows and financial assets and liabilities were denominated in Canadian dollars, which is the Corporation's functional and reporting currency as of December 31, 2010.
The sale of iron ore concentrate, which started in the second quarter of 2010, is denominated in U.S. dollars and, as a result, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar exchange rate relative to the Canadian dollar could create volatility in the Corporation's cash flows and the reported amounts for sales in its consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income, both on a period-to-period basis and compared with operating budgets and forecasts. The Corporation is not currently hedging this foreign exchange exposure with derivative instruments. However, the Corporation is partly managing that risk by having its long-term debt and convertible debentures denominated in U.S. dollars.
Additional earnings volatility arises from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar at the rates of exchange at each balance sheet date, the impact of which is reported as a foreign exchange gain and loss in the consolidated statement of operations.
 
 
The following tables provide an indication of the Corporation's significant foreign currency exposures as at December 31, 2010. The carrying value of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are as follows:
 
 
During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the average and year-end exchange rates were as follows:
 
Based on the Corporation's foreign currency exposures noted above as at December 31, 2010, varying the above foreign exchange rates to reflect a 5 percent strengthening of the Canadian dollar would have increased the income before tax by $15.2 million assuming that all other variables remained constant. An assumed 5 percent weakening of the Canadian dollar would have had an equal but opposite effect on the income (loss) before mining and income taxes.
 
The Corporation is exposed to interest rate risks through its financial assets and obligations bearing variable interest rates. The interest rates on its revolving senior secured credit facility bear interest at floating rates, but no amount was drawn under the facility as of December 31, 2010. Cash equivalents were invested at interest rates in effect at the time of investment. However, as these investments come to maturity within a short period of time, interest income of the Corporation will be subject to interest rate fluctuation.
Except for the revolving senior secured credit facility, the long-term debt and convertible debentures bear fixed interest rates. The Corporation is exposed to fluctuations in long-term interest rates relative to the refinancing of its debt obligations upon their maturity. The interest rate on new long-term debt issuances will be based on the prevailing rates at the time of the refinancing, and will also depend on the features of the new debt issued. The Corporation does not currently use derivative financial instruments to manage fixed and floating interest rates.
 
The future profitability of the Corporation is directly related to the market price of iron ore, and to a lesser extent, the cost for energy such as electricity and fuel. As the sales of iron ore began in the second
 
 
quarter of 2010, fluctuations in the iron ore price and energy cost could create volatility in the Corporation's future cash flows and the future reported amounts for sales and cost of goods sold in its consolidated statement of operations, both on a period-to-period basis and compared with operating budgets and forecasts. The Corporation does not currently use derivative financial instruments to manage commodity exposure.
 
In February 2009, when the Corporation acquired common shares of Largo, the Corporation and Largo had two directors and one officer in common at the time of the transaction. In August, 2009, one of the directors, and the officer that both companies had in common, resigned from the Corporation. The second director is no longer a director of Largo.
The Corporation was party to an agreement that expired in January 2010 for the use of a corporate aircraft that is owned by one of the directors who resigned in August 2009. The Corporation has paid $0.1 million in 2010 ($1.4 million in 2009 and $0.5 million in 2008) for the use of this aircraft, mainly to travel between the Bloom Lake property to the Corporation's offices in Toronto and Montral during the construction.
A director and officer of the Corporation is special advisor of Energizer Resource Inc. and owns 750,000 common shares, 375,000 warrants and 400,000 options to purchase common shares of Energizer Resource Inc. Two other directors of the Corporation own 31,000 shares in total of Energizer Resource Inc.
In 2010, sales of iron ore concentrate to WISCO, a major shareholder of the Corporation and a 25% partner in the Bloom Lake LP partnership, amounted to $242.5 million. As at December 31, 2010, amounts receivable from sales to WISCO were $45.5 million.
All of the above transactions are measured at the exchange amount established and agreed to by the related parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation has an agreement to sell to WISCO a minimum of four million tonnes of iron ore concentrate per year for the life of the mine based on the annual production of eight million tonnes of concentrate produced. WISCO has an option to purchase up to 60% of the next eight million tonnes per year to be produced under the expansion plan underway.
The Corporation has an agreement to sell to SK Networks one million tonnes of iron ore concentrate per year for ten years, until 2020.
The selling price on all these agreements is determined monthly based on an average of the published daily spot prices in a recognized iron ore concentrate trade publication.
 
 
 
 
 
Acquisition of all outstanding shares the Corporation by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.
On January 11, 2011, the Corporation announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement (the "Arrangement Agreement") pursuant to which Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. ("Cliffs") will acquire all the outstanding common shares of the Corporation by way of a plan of arrangement (the "Arrangement") for C$17.25 per share in cash. The Corporation's Board of Directors has unanimously determined to recommend that the Corporation shareholders vote in favour of the Arrangement. Concurrently with the announcement, WISCO and its related entities which hold approximately 19% of the outstanding common shares of the Corporation as well as directors, senior officers and other insiders have entered into support agreements pursuant to which they have all agreed to vote their common shares in favour of the Arrangement.
The Arrangement was subject to the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the votes cast at a special meeting of the Corporation shareholders and to certain customary conditions, including court approval, relevant regulatory approvals and the absence of any material adverse change with respect to the Corporation.
On January 28, 2011, the Corporation obtained an interim order of the Superior Court of Quebec under the Canada Business Corporations Act to authorize the shareholder meeting process in connection with the Arrangement. On February 25, 2011, the Arrangement has been approved by 97% of the votes cast at the special shareholder meeting. On February 28, 2011, the Canadian Competition Bureau issued a "no-action" letter, which constitutes clearance under the Competition Act pursuant to the terms of the Arrangement. On March 1, 2011, the Corporation appeared in the Superior court of Quebec and obtained the final order to proceed with the Arrangement. On April 12, 2011, Cliffs received approval under the Investment Canada Act for completion of the Arrangement. On May 9, 2011, Cliffs received clearance from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce for completion of the Arrangement.
On May 12, 2011, the Arrangement was completed and Cliffs acquired all the outstanding common shares of the Corporation.
Impact of the transaction on the capital of the Corporation
Pursuant to the Arrangement, upon the closing of the transaction on May 12, 2011, each outstanding warrant and option (vested and unvested) to purchase common shares of the Corporation were acquired for cancellation by the Corporation in exchange for a cash payment equal to the product of (i) C$17.25 less the exercise price per common share of the relevant warrant or option, and (ii) the number of common shares underlying the relevant warrant or option.
Following the closing of the transaction, a change of control offer (the "Debenture Change of Control Offer") was made on May 12, 2011 for the Corporation's outstanding unsecured convertible debentures (the "Debentures") in accordance with their trust indenture dated November 29, 2010, as amended (the "Debenture Indenture"). Until the close of business on the 30th day after the mailing, Debenture holders will be entitled to convert their Debentures into common shares at a reduced conversion price of US$11.9810 per share, in accordance with the formula in the Debenture Indenture. The Corporation will deliver cash consideration upon such conversion, as contemplated by the provisions of the Debenture Indenture. A conversion of 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Debentures at the premium conversion ratio will result in a cash payment of approximately US$331 million.
 
 
Prior to that, on March 9, 2011, the Corporation announced the commencement of a solicitation of consents (the "Consent Solicitation") to amend the Debenture Indenture. The purpose of the Consent Solicitation was to obtain approval for proposed amendments to the Indenture (the "Proposed Amendments"). The Proposed Amendments permit the Corporation to redeem any outstanding Debentures for cash at the redemption price set out in the Consent Solicitation Statement, and on the other terms and conditions set out in the Consent Solicitation Statement, at any time after the expiration of the Cash Change of Control Conversion Period (as defined in the Debenture Indenture) relating to a Cash Change of Control (as defined in the Debenture Indenture) in which the consideration per common share of the Corporation consists entirely of cash. On March 22, 2011, the Corporation announced that it had received sufficient consents of the holders of its Debentures pursuant to the Consent Solicitation. Accordingly, the Corporation announced, on May 13, 2011 that it will redeem any Debentures that then remain outstanding on June 13, 2011 after giving effect to any conversion that occurred during the Cash Change of Control Conversion Period. Those holders who validly delivered their consent, where such consent is accepted, were eligible to receive a consent fee as set out in the Consent Solicitation Statement.
On April 13, 2011, Cliffs purchased directly from the bondholders all outstanding senior secured bonds of a nominal amount of US$100 million for an amount of US$124.9 million.
The revolving senior secured credit facility was cancelled upon the closing of the transaction on May 12, 2011, and commitments there under were terminated without penalty.
Repayment of the unsecured term credit facility provided by SK Networks Co. Ltd
On April 15, 2011, the Corporation repaid in full the US$50 million unsecured term credit facility provided by SK Networks Co. Ltd. and commitments were terminated without penalty.
 
 
The 2010 and 2009 consolidated financial statements of the Corporation have been prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles ("CDN GAAP"), which in some respects differ from United States generally accepted accounting principles ("US GAAP"). The effects of these differences on the Corporation's net income, other comprehensive income and shareholders' equity for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are provided in the following CDN GAAP to US GAAP reconciliation which should be read in conjunction with the Corporation's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with CDN GAAP:
 
 
 
Note a) Non-controlling interest presentation
Under US GAAP, non-controlling interest is presented below net income (loss) on the face of the statement of operations with a sub-total below for net income (loss) attributable to the company. Under Canadian GAAP, this amount is included in net income (loss). Similarly, non-controlling interest is included as a component of shareholders' equity under US GAAP but presented outside of shareholders' equity under Canadian GAAP. Accordingly, we have made these presentation changes in the reconciliations above.
Note b) Exploration and development costs
Under United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") guidelines, all costs incurred before a commercially mineable deposit is established, generally by completing a bankable feasibility study, must be charged to earnings as incurred. The Company's Canadian GAAP policy is to capitalize these pre-feasibility costs.
Note c) Stripping costs
Under US GAAP, the stripping costs incurred to expand a pit already in production should be expensed as incurred and not capitalized. The Company's Canadian GAAP policy is to capitalize these costs.
Note d) Capitalized interest
Under US GAAP, the amount of interest capitalized for qualifying assets should be that portion of the interest cost incurred during the acquisition periods that theoretically could have been avoided if expenditures for the assets had not been made. Under Canadian GAAP the Corporation's policy is to not capitalize interest cost for qualifying assets.
Note e) Convertible debt instruments
Under US GAAP, debt instruments with equity-linked embedded derivative features generally do not require bifurcation unless certain exceptions exist in the contractual terms. One such exception is when the strike price in the conversion feature is denominated in a currency other than the issuer's functional currency. The convertible debentures issued by the Corporation on November 29, 2010 have such a conversion feature and thus are required to be separated under US GAAP from the host contract and fair valued as a freestanding derivative that is marked-to-market through the statement of operations. Accordingly, the conversion feature was removed from shareholders' equity ($53.3 million) for the purposes of the reconciliation to US GAAP. The US GAAP value assigned to the conversion feature would be fair valued using a binomial option pricing method and classified as a derivative liability.
Canadian GAAP requires the conversion feature of the debt instrument to be separated from the debt portion and classified in shareholders' equity. The adjustment in net income is a combination of the mark-to-market effect ($29.2 million), the write-off of debt issuance costs allocated to the derivative liability ($3.4 million), and changes in calculated interest expense and foreign exchange gain or loss ($0.9 million).
Note f) Affect on depreciation and depletion
The depreciation and depletion calculated under US GAAP is different than the amount calculated under Canadian GAAP based on the changes in Notes b) and c) above.
 
 
Note g) Reversal of valuation allowance for share issuance costs
The income tax recovery on the consolidated statement of operations as calculated under Canadian GAAP has been reduced by $9.7 million because of the requirements under US GAAP to trace forward any changes in valuation allowance initially recorded in shareholders' equity, such as those recorded against the tax benefits of share issue costs. This adjustment has no net effect on the ending balance of shareholders' equity because the adjustments are between net income and common shares.
Note h) Income taxes impact of adjustments
The changes noted above are income tax affected based on the currently enacted tax rate for the Corporation.
Note i) Opening adjustment to retained earnings
The reconciliation requirements are for two years only however, in order to properly present the shareholders' equity reported under US GAAP, adjustments to opening retained earnings must be made. The adjustments made are the same as described in Notes b) and c) above.
The consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were prepared in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles. There are no material differences in the presentation of the operating, investing or financing activities under US generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
 

Exhibit 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information ("Pro Forma Information") is based upon the historical consolidated financial information of Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. ("we" or "Cliffs"), which is included in Cliffs' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011, and Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Limited ("Consolidated Thompson"), which is included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and has been prepared to reflect the acquisition of all the outstanding shares of Consolidated Thompson by Cliffs (the "Acquisition"). The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of financial position as of March 31, 2011 is presented as if the Acquisition and related financing had occurred on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 assumes that the Acquisition and related financing occurred on January 1, 2010. The Pro Forma Information has been prepared using the Consolidated Thompson historical statements of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and the historical statement of financial position as of December 31, 2010, as the Consolidated Thompson financial statements for the first quarter of 2011 were not yet prepared as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A. Due to the combination of required reporting periods for the accompanying Pro Forma Information, the information included herein may differ materially from the results that actually would have been realized had Cliffs acquired Consolidated Thompson during the specified periods as a result of changes in market conditions, such as pricing, customer demand and seasonal constraints. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to estimated pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the Acquisition, (2) factually supportable and (3) with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations, expected to have a continuing impact on the consolidated results of operations.
The Pro Forma Information gives effect to the Acquisition in an all-cash transaction, including net debt. Cliffs will allocate the purchase price of the Acquisition to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Any excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired will be recorded as goodwill. The Pro Forma Information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Cliffs, included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011, and Consolidated Thompson, which are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
The Pro Forma Information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods or the results that actually would have been realized had Cliffs acquired Consolidated Thompson during the specified periods. The pro forma adjustments are based on the preliminary information available at the time of the preparation of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A. For purposes of this Pro Forma Information, Cliffs has made a preliminary allocation of the estimated purchase price to the tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on various estimates of their fair value. The allocation of the purchase price as of the date of acquisition may differ materially from the information presented in the accompanying Pro Forma Information due to changes in the fair value of the Consolidated Thompson assets and liabilities between December 31, 2010 and the date of acquisition and as a further and more comprehensive analysis is completed.
Additionally, the Pro Forma Information does not reflect the cost of any integration activities or benefits that may result from synergies that may be derived from any integration activities. This includes our on-going evaluation of the global tax structure necessary to support our current and future business requirements. Therefore, the actual amounts reflected in our statement of unaudited condensed consolidated operations may differ materially from the information presented in the accompanying Pro Forma Information.
Certain amounts in the historical Consolidated Thompson consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to Cliffs' financial statement presentation. Management expects that there could be additional reclassifications following the Acquisition. Consolidated Thompson's historical functional currency, the Canadian dollar, has been assumed for the preparation of the Pro Forma Information. The Consolidated
Thompson historical financial statements have been translated from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars for purposes of the Pro Forma Information. The Consolidated Thompson historical statements of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 have been translated using the average foreign exchange rates prevailing during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, at average exchange rates of $1.01 and $0.97 Canadian dollars/U.S. dollars, respectively. The Consolidated Thompson historical statement of financial position as of December 31, 2010 has been translated using the foreign exchange rate as of March 31, 2011, at an exchange rate of $1.03 Canadian dollars/U.S. dollars. The foreign exchange rates prevailing during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the foreign exchange rate as of March 31, 2011 have been used to translate the Consolidated Thompson historical statements of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the historical statement of financial position as of December 31, 2010, respectively, in order to capture the impact of known foreign currency movement within the Pro Forma Information. The functional currency of Consolidated Thompson is being evaluated by management and may change to the U.S. dollar upon the inclusion of Consolidated Thompson into Cliffs' consolidated results. Based upon the outcome of such an evaluation, the translation of Consolidated Thompson's monetary assets and liabilities could result in additional foreign currency gains or losses included in earnings.
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
On May 12, 2011, we completed the Acquisition in an all-cash transaction, including net debt. The Acquisition reflects our strategy to build scale by owning expandable and exportable steelmaking raw material assets serving international markets.
The accompanying Pro Forma Information presents the pro forma consolidated financial position and results of operations of the combined company based upon the historical financial statements of Cliffs and Consolidated Thompson, after giving effect to the Acquisition adjustments described in these notes, and is intended to reflect the impact of the Acquisition on Cliffs. Certain amounts in Consolidated Thompson's historical financial statements have been reclassified to conform to Cliffs' presentation (refer to ). In addition, the Consolidated Thompson historical financial statements have been translated from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars for purposes of the Pro Forma Information.
Note 4. Reclassification Adjustments
The Acquisition has been accounted for in the Pro Forma Information by allocating the total purchase price of the Acquisition to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values. The allocation of the purchase price to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of financial position has been based upon management's preliminary valuation estimates. Such allocations will be finalized based on additional valuation and other studies. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation adjustments and related impacts on the Pro Forma Information are preliminary and are subject to revisions, which may be material when based upon the date of acquisition.
Note 2. Purchase Price (Dollars in Millions, Except Share Prices)
As of the closing date of the Acquisition: (a) each outstanding Consolidated Thompson common share was acquired by Cliffs for a cash payment of C$17.25; (b) each outstanding option and warrant that was "in the money" was acquired for cancellation for C$17.25 less the exercise price per underlying Consolidated Thompson common share; (c) each outstanding performance share unit was acquired for cancellation for C$17.25; (d) all outstanding Quinto rights were acquired for cancellation for C$17.25 per each underlying Consolidated Thompson common share; and, (e) certain Consolidated Thompson management contracts were eliminated that contained certain change of control provisions for contingent payments upon termination.
As of March 31, 2011, the preliminary estimated total purchase price of the Acquisition, exclusive of Consolidated Thompson cash, is as follows:
 
For purposes of the Pro Forma Information presented as of March 31, 2011, the cash consideration component of the preliminary estimated purchase price has been estimated to be funded by approximately $2.1 billion of Cliffs cash on hand and approximately $2.4 billion of new debt consisting of $1.25 billion related to a new term loan, $0.3 billion related to the issuance of $0.3 billion aggregate principal amount of our 6.25 percent senior notes issued on April 1, 2011 and $0.87 billion related to a bridge facility.
The sources of the cash used to fund the Acquisition and our anticipated post-Acquisition financing structure, inclusive of the assumed debt of Consolidated Thompson, are based upon our assumptions as of March 31, 2011. Therefore, the Pro Forma Information does not include an adjustment for actual borrowings of $0.75 billion under our bridge facility that occurred on May 10, 2011 to fund the Acquisition. We continue to
evaluate the structure of our permanent financing for the Acquisition by, among other things, accessing the capital markets. Changes to the anticipated financing structure could change materially from what is presented as we continue our analysis and finalize the permanent financing structure.
Note 3. Pro Forma Adjustments (Table Amounts in Millions)
The Pro Forma Information includes the following pro forma adjustments to reflect (1) the effects of additional financing necessary to complete the Acquisition and (2) the allocation of the purchase price, including adjusting assets and liabilities to fair value, with related changes in revenues, costs and expenses:
Balance sheet pro forma adjustments:
(a) Reflects reclassification adjustments described in .
Note 4. Reclassification Adjustments
(b) Reflects the estimated $2.1 billion net payment of cash from Cliffs' cash on hand for the consideration to be paid for the acquisition of all outstanding Consolidated Thompson common shares, options, warrants, performance share units and Quinto rights, and the consideration to be paid to eliminate certain Consolidated Thompson management contracts.
 
(c) The net assets to be acquired from Consolidated Thompson using the amounts as of December 31, 2010, the pro forma adjustments to reflect the fair value of Consolidated Thompson's net reported assets and other purchase accounting adjustments are estimated as follows:
 
Included among the liabilities assumed in the Acquisition are the Consolidated Thompson convertible debentures that as a result of the Acquisition may be converted by their holders into cash in accordance with the cash change of control provision of the convertible debenture indenture. The convertible debentures allow the debenture holders to convert at a premium conversion ratio beginning on the 10th trading day prior to the closing of the Acquisition and ending on the 30th day subsequent to the mailing of an offer to purchase the convertible debentures, which is the cash change of control conversion period as defined by the convertible debenture indenture. On May 12, 2011, following the closing of the Acquisition, Consolidated Thompson commenced the offer to purchase all of the outstanding convertible debentures in accordance with its obligations under the convertible debenture indenture by mailing to the debenture holders such offer to purchase. Additionally, on May 13, 2011, Consolidated Thompson gave notice that it was exercising its right to redeem any convertible debentures that remain outstanding on June 13, 2011, after giving effect to any conversions that occurred during the cash change of control conversion period. As
previously disclosed, Consolidated Thompson received sufficient consents from the debenture holders, pursuant to a consent solicitation, to amend the convertible debenture indenture to give Consolidated Thompson such a redemption right. Accordingly, the convertible debentures have been reclassified from long-term debt within the Consolidated Thompson historical consolidated financial information to current debt due to the expected timing of the conversion and redemption of the convertible debentures.
The allocation of the purchase price is based upon management's preliminary estimates and certain assumptions with respect to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The ultimate fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be determined as of the date of acquisition and may differ materially from the amounts disclosed above in the pro forma purchase price allocation due to changes in fair value of the Consolidated Thompson assets and liabilities between December 31, 2010 and the date of acquisition. In addition, the pro forma purchase price allocation may differ materially from the amounts disclosed above as a further and more comprehensive analysis is completed, which may include the identification of certain intangible assets not included above. As a result, the actual allocation of the purchase price and the corresponding amortization may result in materially different adjustments than those noted above.
The mineral lands are amortized using the units of production method. The estimated depletion expense on the preliminary adjustment to fair value for the mineral lands for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows:
 
(d) Reflects future transaction costs incurred in connection with the Acquisition. These costs have not been tax effected for the purposes of this Pro Forma Information as we are continuing to evaluate the deductibility of these expenses.
(e) Reflects the borrowings under a $1.25 billion new term loan, $0.3 billion aggregate principal amount of our 6.25 percent senior notes issued on April 1, 2011 and a $0.87 billion bridge facility to fund the portion of the cash consideration required for the Acquisition not funded by cash on hand as described in (b) above. The adjustment also includes the estimated $18.0 million of deferred debt issuance costs expected to be incurred by Cliffs in connection with the debt issuance.
(f) Reflects the elimination of Consolidated Thompson's historical stockholders' equity.
(g) Reflects the impact of our purchase of the $100 million aggregate principle amount of outstanding Consolidated Thompson senior secured notes directly from the note holders for $124.9 million, including accrued and unpaid interest, on April 13, 2011. The transaction was initially recorded as an investment in Consolidated Thompson senior secured notes and upon consolidation, the investment and the underlying senior secured notes are eliminated as an intercompany transaction.
Income Statement pro forma adjustments:
(h) Reflects the elimination of the Cliffs' and the Consolidated Thompson recognized under the Arnaud Railway agreement between Cliffs' Wabush mine and Consolidated Thompson during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010.
Product Revenues
Cost of Good Sold and Operating Expenses
(i) The adjustment reflects the estimated $8.2 million and $20.5 million estimated depletion expense associated with the preliminary fair value adjustment to mineral lands during the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, respectively. For purposes of preparing the Pro Forma Information, the estimated depletion expense was based upon production tons of approximately 1.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 3.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the adjustment also reflects the estimated expense of the $55.0 million preliminary fair value adjustment to inventories, as the acquired inventory has been estimated to be sold during 2010.
(j) Reflects the elimination of $3.5 million and $9.7 million of expenses related to stock-based compensation expense recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, respectively, based upon the settlement of the options, performance share units and the warrants upon the close of the Acquisition.
(k) Reflects the elimination of Consolidated Thompson's historical interest expense of $2.3 million and $8.1 million on the senior secured notes during the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, respectively, based upon Cliffs' purchase of such debt directly from the senior secured note holders. The adjustment also reflects the pro forma interest expense on Cliffs' incremental borrowings needed to fund a portion of the cash consideration required for the Acquisition and the associated amortization of deferred debt issuance costs. The adjustment assumes that the borrowings are as of January 1, 2010, the earliest unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations presented, and that the variable interest rates under the new term loan and the bridge facility are based on the one month LIBOR rate plus a margin. The interest rate on the $0.3 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due 2040 is fixed at 6.25 percent and the interest rate on the $0.7 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due 2021 is fixed at 4.875 percent. A 12.5 basis-point change in the variable interest rates on the new term loan and the bridge facility would increase (decrease) interest expense by approximately $0.6 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, respectively.
(l) Reflects the recognition of the income tax consequences of the pro forma adjustments identified above. The adjustments have been tax effected at the appropriate statutory rates. We are in the process of evaluating the global tax structure necessary to support our current and future business requirements. Therefore, the actual amounts reflected in our statement of consolidated operations may differ materially from the information presented in the Pro Forma Information.
(m) Reflects the elimination of the $29.6 million and $28.3 million mark-to-market loss on the derivative liability recorded with respect to the Consolidated Thompson convertible debentures for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, respectively. The convertible debentures have been adjusted to fair value for the purposes of the Pro Forma Information in adjustment (c) above.
Note 4. Reclassification Adjustments (Table Amounts in Millions)
As noted above, certain amounts in Consolidated Thompson's historical financial statements have been reclassified to conform to Cliffs' presentation.
Note i) Reflects the reclassification of Consolidated Thompson start-up expenses of $10.0 million from to and the reclassification of $0.9 million of Consolidated Thompson foreign exchange losses to from for the three months ended December 31, 2010. Also, reflects the reclassification of $0.4 million of accretion expenses from to during the same period.
Miscellaneous  net
Cost of Goods Sold and Operating Expenses
Miscellaneous  net
Other  net
Other  net
Cost of Goods Sold and Operating Expenses
Note ii) Reflects the reclassification of Consolidated Thompson start-up expenses of $64.7 million and amortization expense of $1.8 million from to and the reclassification of $1.7 million of Consolidated Thompson foreign exchange losses to from for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. Also, reflects the reclassification of $0.5 million of accretion expenses from to during the same period.
Miscellaneous  net
Cost of Goods Sold and Operating Expenses
Miscellaneous  net
Other  net
Other  net
Cost of Goods Sold and Operating Expenses
Note iii) Reflects the reclassification of $27.7 million of Consolidated Thompson receivables related to goods and services and provincial taxes and other accounts receivable from to .
Accounts receivable
Other current assets
Note iv) Reflects the reclassification of $17.0 million of Consolidated Thompson current capital lease obligations and $79.2 million of Consolidated Thompson noncurrent capital lease obligations from and to and , respectively.
Current portion of long-term debt
Other long-term debt
Other current liabilities
Other Liabilities
Note v) Reflects other miscellaneous reclassifications as reflected in the table above.


