FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20110107143041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. published a press release January 6, 2011 as follows: Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. Announces Receipt of $129 Million in "True-up" Payments from Essar Steel Algoma, Inc. CLEVELAND  Jan. 6, 2011  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (NYSE: CLF) (Paris: CLF) today announced the receipt of $129 million in "true-up" payments from Essar Steel Algoma, Inc. These payments are related to the portion of revenue from 2010 pellet sales that were disputed in a previously disclosed arbitration. Despite this cash payment, Essar Steel Algoma is maintaining a court application to vacate the arbitration award which Cliffs is vigorously contesting. Cliffs also indicated that Essar Steel Algoma has agreed to pay a provisional per-ton rate determined through the arbitration process for all 2011 shipments until final pricing is determined through its supply agreement. To be added to Cliffs Natural Resources e-mail distribution list, please click on the l ink below: http://www.cpg-llc.com/clearsite/clf/emailoptin.html About Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. is an international mining and natural resources company. A member of the S&P 500 Index, we are the largest producer of iron ore pellets in North America, a major supplier of direct-shipping lump and fines iron ore out of Australia and a significant producer of high and low volatile metallurgical coal. With core values of environmental and capital stewardship, our colleagues across the globe endeavor to provide all stakeholders operating and financial transparency as embodied in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Our Company is organized through three geographic business units: The North American business unit is comprised of six iron ore mines owned or managed in Michigan, Minnesota and Canada and six coal mines located in West Virginia and Alabama. The Asia Pacific business unit is comprised of two iron ore mining complexes in Western Austr alia and a 45% economic interest in a coking and thermal coal mine in Queensland, Australia. The Latin American business unit includes a 30% interest in the Amap Project, an iron ore project in the state of Amap in Brazil. Other projects under development include a biomass production plant in Michigan and Ring of Fire chromite properties in Ontario, Canada. Over recent years, Cliffs has been executing a strategy designed to achieve scale in the mining industry and focused on serving the world's largest and fastest growing steel markets. News releases and other information on the Company are available on the Internet at: http://www.cliffsnaturalresources.com or www.cliffsnaturalresources.com/Investors/Pages/default.aspx?b=1041&1=1 "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This news release contains predictive statements that are intended to be made as "forward-looking" within the safe harbor protections of the Private Se curities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that its forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from such statements for a variety of reasons; availability of capital equipment and component parts; availability of float capacity; ability to maintain adequate liquidity and our ability to access capital markets; changes in the financial condition of our partners and/or customers; rejection of major contracts and/or venture agreements by customers and/or participants under provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar statutes in other countries; events or circumstances that could impair or adversely impact the viability of a mine and the carrying value of associated assets; inability to achieve expected production levels; reductions in current resource estimates; impacts of increasing governmental regulation including failure to receive or maintain required envi ronmental permits; problems with productivity, third party contractors, labor disputes, weather conditions, fluctuations in ore grade, tons mined, changes in cost factors including energy costs, transportation, mine closure obligations and employee benefit costs; the ability to identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisition candidates; risks associated with operations in multiple countries and the effect of these various risks on our future cash flows, debt levels, liquidity and financial position. Reference is also made to the detailed explanation of the many factors and risks that may cause such predictive statements to turn out differently, set forth in the Company's Annual Report and Reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and previous news releases filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are publicly available on Cliffs Natural Resources' website. The information contained in this document speaks as of the date of this news release and may be superseded by subsequent events. < br>SOURCE: Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACTS: Steve Baisden Sr. Director, Investor Relations and Communications (216) 694-5280 Jessica Moran Manager, Investor Relations (216) 694-6532 Patricia Persico Sr. Manager, Media Relations and Marketing Communications (216) 694-5316
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


