FILE:CLF/CLF-8K-20121019151354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 16, 2012, Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (the "") amended and extended its existing credit facility by entering into an Amendment No. 1 dated October 16, 2012 ("") to the Amended and Restated Multicurrency Credit Agreement dated August 11, 2011 ("") among the Company, certain of its foreign subsidiaries of the Company, various Lenders from time to time party thereto ("") and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and L/C Issuer, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., PNC Capital Markets Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, and Fifth Third Bank and RBS Citizens, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agents.
Company
Amendment No. 1
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Amendment No. 1 extends the term of the prior credit facility by approximately one year to October 16, 2017. All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.
 
See discussion under Item 1.01 above.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 19, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.1
AMENDMENT dated as of October 16, 2012 to the Amended and Restated Multicurrency Credit Agreement dated as of August 11, 2011 (the "") among CLIFFS NATURAL RESOURCES INC. (the ""), certain Foreign Subsidiaries of the Company from time to time party thereto, various Lenders from time to time party thereto and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer (the ""), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Syndication Agent and L/C Issuer, MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., PNC CAPITAL MARKETS INC. and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, and FIFTH THIRD BANK and RBS CITIZENS, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agents.
Credit Agreement
Company
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Credit Agreement to extend the Termination Date from August 11, 2016 to October 16, 2017;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1 Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement. Each reference to "hereof", "hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each reference to "this Agreement" and each other similar reference contained in the Loan Documents shall, after this Amendment becomes effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
. Defined Terms; References.
SECTION 2 . The definition of "Termination Date" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is amended by changing the date specified therein from "August 11, 2016" to "October 16, 2017."
. Extension of Termination Date
SECTION 3 The Company represents and warrants that (i) each of the representations and warranties of the Loan Parties set forth in the Credit Agreement and in the other Loan Documents will be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Amendment Effective Date (except to the extent the same expressly relate to an earlier date with respect to which such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as to such earlier date) and (ii) no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing on such date.
. Representations of Company.
SECTION 4 This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
SECTION 5 This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Amendment by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
. Counterparts.
SECTION 6 This Amendment shall become effective on the date ("") when the Administrative Agent shall have received:
. Effectiveness.
Amendment Effective Date
(a) from each of the Company and the Lenders a counterpart hereof signed by such party; and
(b) an amendment fee for the account of each Lender in the amount heretofore mutually agreed.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


