FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20081107071815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 7, 2008, Discovery Communications, Inc. released its earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press release dated November 7, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Discovery Communications, Inc. (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. The discussion below assumes the transaction between Discovery Holding Company and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership that resulted in Discovery Communications becoming a public company, as described in the Other Items section on page 4, occurred on January 1, 2007 and as such includes 100% of Discovery Communications' results for both 2008 and 2007. Please see the as adjusted financial statements beginning on page 13 for an explanation of why management believes this presentation is appropriate.
Silver Spring, Maryland  November 7, 2008:
David Zaslav, Discovery's Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are very pleased with the strong performance we delivered in the third quarter, our first as a fully public company. Our ability to generate 11% revenue and 23% Adjusted OIBDA as adjusted growth in these challenging economic and capital market conditions demonstrates the strength of our brands, the diversity of our revenue streams and the global demand for our content. As we move forward as a public company we remain steadfastly focused on delivering leading nonfiction programming that can be leveraged time and again across our domestic and international platforms. With our unique content and our unparalleled global reach, our objective is to continue to grow and enhance value for our stakeholders despite the uncertain economic environment."
(1)
Revenues of $845 million increased 11% over the as adjusted third quarter a year ago, primarily driven by 16% growth at International Networks and 6% growth at U.S. Networks. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") increased 23% to $311 million led by 58% growth at International Networks and 9% growth at U.S. Networks. Adjusted OIBDA margin increased to 37% for the third quarter 2008 from 33% for the same prior year period. We define Adjusted OIBDA as revenue less cost of services and selling, general and administrative expense excluding marked to market equity-based compensation under our long-term incentive plans, amortization of deferred launch incentives, depreciation and amortization, restructuring, and impairment charges.
(1)
Third quarter net income from continuing operations of $94 million ($0.31 per share) increased $64 million versus the as adjusted results of $30 million ($0.11 per share) for the third quarter a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect the higher Adjusted OIBDA as well as a $65 million benefit in the current year related to the unrealized change in the fair value of the marked to market equity-based compensation which was an expense of $44 million in the third quarter a year ago.
(1)
Free cash flow was $200 million for the third quarter and $339 million for the first nine months of 2008, an increase of $271 million from the as adjusted results for the first nine months of 2007. We define free cash flow as Cash Flows from Operating Activities less Acquisitions of property and equipment.
(1)
     
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Networks
U.S. networks' revenue in the third quarter of 2008 increased 6% to $498 million primarily driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 8% largely from higher rates across the fully distributed networks, subscriber growth at the emerging networks and lower launch-support amortization. Advertising revenue increased 5% from higher sellouts and pricing, partially offset by lower ratings at TLC and Discovery Channel.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 9% to $257 million reflecting the 6% revenue growth and flat operating expenses as lower marketing costs on Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet were offset by continued investment in digital media as well as by slightly higher programming expenses. The increase in programming costs during the quarter primarily reflects a content impairment charge of $17 million related to the management team reorganization at TLC and higher programming costs at Discovery, Science and Planet Green, mostly offset by a $20 million decrease in content amortization as a result of the impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007.
International Networks
International networks' revenue for the third quarter increased 16% to $300 million led by 22% distribution revenue growth primarily from subscriber increases in EMEA (Europe (excluding U.K.), Middle East and Africa) and Latin America. Advertising revenue was flat as strong growth in EMEA and Latin America from increased volume and higher rates was offset by lower advertising revenue in the U.K. due to an interpretation of a contract provision resulting in a limitation in our ability to monetize our audience. Excluding the U.K., advertising revenue increased 29% over the third quarter a year ago at International networks. The quarter also included 38% growth in other revenue driven by the sale of Discovery programs in the U.K. and by Antenna Audio's expanded client base.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 58% to $103 million reflecting the 16% revenue growth, partially offset by 2% higher operating expenses primarily a result of increased programming expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 13% and Adjusted OIBDA increased 50% versus the third quarter of 2007.
Commerce, Education and Other
Commerce, Education and Other revenue increased 29% to $45 million and Adjusted OIBDA increased to $5 million as compared with an Adjusted OIBDA loss of $3 million in the third quarter a year ago. The $8 million increase in Adjusted OIBDA was primarily due to higher education revenues from the streaming of new products as well as sponsorship and licensing deals. Additionally, the quarter included license revenues from as well as DVD sales under the Blockbuster agreement announced during the second quarter.
When We Left Earth
The current quarter also included revenues of $20 million and Adjusted OIBDA of $2 million for Creative Sound Services which is included for the full quarter in 2008 following the transaction described in Other Items. This compares with revenues of $15 million and an Adjusted OIBDA loss of $1 million in 2007. For the nine months ended September 30, 2008 revenues were $56 million and Adjusted OIBDA was $2 million as compared with revenues of $59 million and Adjusted OIBDA of $2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007.
Corporate
Corporate expenses increased $13 million to $56 million in the third quarter, primarily due to costs associated with the transaction described in Other Items as well as $4 million in costs related to the formation of the OWN joint venture.
OTHER ITEMS
In September 2008, Discovery Holding Company, Inc. ("DHC") and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse") closed a transaction that included the combination of DHC's approximate 67% interest in Discovery Communications, LLC ("Discovery") with Advance/Newhouse's approximate 33% interest in Discovery. Included in the transaction, DHC spun-off its interests in Ascent Media Corporation except for certain businesses that provide sound-related services which remain with Discovery Communications. As a result of the transaction, DHC ceased to be a reporting company and Discovery Communications, Inc. became the successor reporting entity to DHC. The attached consolidated statements of operations, consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows assume the above transaction occurred as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The prior year results included in the attached financial statements reflect the previously reported results of DHC, which accounted for its interest in Discovery in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Additionally, the results of Ascent Media Corporation with the exception of the Creative Sound Services business have been treated as discontinued operations for 2008 and 2007. See our Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 2008 for a more detailed description of the transaction and for further explanation of the financial statement presentation. See the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 13 for a reconciliation of DHC's previously reported results to as adjusted financial statements for 2007.
FULL YEAR 2008 OUTLOOK
For the full year ended December 31, 2008, Discovery Communications expects total revenue between $3,440 million and $3,485 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,255 million and $1,305 million and net income from continuing operations of $300 million to $340 million. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and current share price for marked to market equity based compensation calculations.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow.  The Company defines Adjusted OIBDA as revenue less cost of revenue and selling, general and administrative expense excluding marked to market equity-based compensation under our long-term incentive plans and amortization of deferred launch incentives. The Company excludes equity-based compensation under long-term incentive plans due to its significant volatility from being marked to market. The Company excludes the amortization of deferred launch incentive payments because these payments are infrequent and the amortization does not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. In addition to these items, Adjusted OIBDA also excludes depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges that are included in the measurement of operating income pursuant to GAAP. Management uses Adjusted OIBDA to assess the operational strength and performance of its operating segments, as well as the Company as a whole, and to view operating results, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each operating segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is an important measure to investors because it allows them to analyze operating performance of each business and the Company overall using the same metric management uses and provides investors a measure to analyze operating performance of each business division and the Company overall against historical data.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operations less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders.
Since Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 10 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
2007 Results
See page 13 for an explanation of how as adjusted results for 2007 have been calculated and why management believes this presentation would be meaningful to investors.
Travel Channel
The Company presents 2007 results without the Travel Channel, which was exchanged on May 14, 2007. See our Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 2008 for a more detailed description of this transaction. Management believes this presentation is useful to investors because it allows them to analyze operating performance of the U.S. networks and total company against comparable historical data. See page 13 for reconciliation to results including Travel Channel.
Conference Call Information
Discovery Communications will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m EST to discuss its third quarter 2008 results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Registration Statement on
Form S-4
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 6, 2008 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 7, 2008. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2008 outlook. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The following as adjusted financial statements assume the transaction between DHC and Advance/Newhouse, as well as Discovery Communication's exchange of the Travel Channel, were completed as of January 1, 2007. The as adjusted results do not purport to be indicative of the results that would have been obtained if these events had been completed by January 1, 2007. See our Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 2008 for a more detailed description of the transaction and for further explanation of the financial statement presentation.
The as adjusted financial statements for 2007 have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that this presentation is meaningful to investors, because it presents the results of Discovery Communications, the reporting successor to DHC. Discovery Communications will be the reporting entity going forward and a comparison of DHC's results for 2007 to Discovery Communications' results for 2008 would not provide investors with meaningful information regarding changes in financial performance of Discovery Communications from 2007 to 2008.
The information in the Discovery Holding Company historical and Discovery Communications historical columns in the following as adjusted financial statements is derived from the historical financial statements of Discovery Holding Company and Discovery Communications, respectively. Certain reclassifications, with no impact to operating income, have been made to the 2007 financial information to conform to the 2008 presentation.


