FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20080923172007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On September 17, 2008, Discovery Holding Company, Inc. ("DHC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discovery Communications, Inc. ("DCI" or "the Company"), completed the divestiture of its interests in Ascent Media Corporation ("AMC"), a subsidiary holding cash and all of the businesses of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Ascent Media CANS, LLC (dba AccentHealth) and Ascent Media Group, LLC, except for certain businesses of Ascent Media Group, LLC that provide sound, music, mixing, sound effects and other related services under brand names such as Sound One, POP Sound, Soundelux and Todd A-O, which business will remain with the Company. The unaudited condensed pro forma combined financial statements are required to be filed as a result of this divestiture since AMC is considered a significant subsidiary under SEC Regulation S-X Rule 1-02(w) of DHC. As such, we are required to file pro forma financial statements in accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, Article 11. Also on September 17, 2008, DHC completed its merger with DCI, therefore the unaudited condensed pro forma combined financial statements include the combination of the subsidiaries of DCI since this acquisition is considered a significant acquisition under Rule 3-05 of SEC Regulation S-X. The historical financial statements of DCH will be filed for the six months ended June 30, 2008 within the next 71 days, as required by Rule 3-05 of SEC Regulation S-X.
     In September 2008, DHC and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse") closed a transaction agreement (the "Transaction Agreement"), which provided, among other things, for the combination of DHC's 66 /% interest in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH") with Advance/Newhouse's 33 /% interest in DCH. The transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement were completed as follows:
2
3
1
3
     The merger of DHC and contribution by Advance/Newhouse of its interests in DCH and Animal Planet are referred to as the "Transaction". As a result of the Transaction, DCI became the successor reporting entity to DHC.
     DCH was formed in the second quarter of 2007 as part of a restructuring (the "Restructuring") completed by Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery"). In the Restructuring, Discovery was converted into a limited liability company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of DCH, and the former shareholders of Discovery became members of DCH. DCH is the successor reporting entity to Discovery. In connection with the Restructuring, DCH applied "pushdown" accounting, and each shareholder's basis in Discovery was pushed down to DCH. The result was $4.3 billion of goodwill being recorded by DCH. As goodwill is not amortizable for financial reporting purposes, there is no current impact to DCH's statement of operations. Therefore, for purposes of the accompanying unaudited condensed pro forma combined statement of operations,
 
DCH's results of operations for the period prior to the Restructuring and the period subsequent to the Restructuring have been combined.
     In May 2007, DCH and Cox Communications Holdings, Inc. ("Cox") completed an exchange of Cox's 25% ownership interest in DCH for a subsidiary of DCH that held Travel Channel, travelchannel.com and approximately $1.3 billion in cash (the "Cox Transaction").
     The following unaudited condensed pro forma combined balance sheet dated as of June 30, 2008 assumes that both the Transaction and the AMC spin-off had been completed as of such date. The following unaudited condensed pro forma combined statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, and the year ended December 31, 2007 assume that the Cox Transaction, the Transaction and the AMC spin-off had been completed as of January 1, 2007. As a result of the Transaction, DHC obtained control of DCH and began consolidating at such time. The unaudited condensed pro forma combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2008 and the unaudited condensed pro forma combined statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2007 reflect such consolidation. The unaudited condensed pro forma combined statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 are presented to reflect the AMC spin-off as discontinued operations as well as the impact of the change in weighted average shares as a result of the exchange of shares effected through the transaction. The unaudited pro forma results do not purport to be indicative of the results that would have been obtained if the Transaction had been completed as of such date.
     The information in the "DHC historical," "AMC historical" and "Discovery Communications Holding historical" columns in the following unaudited condensed pro forma combined financial statements is derived from the historical financial statements of DHC, AMC and DCH, respectively. Certain amounts in cost of sales related to marketing costs were reclassified to selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses on DCH's historical financial statements with no impact to operating income. The impact was to decrease cost of sales with a corresponding increase in SG&A expenses of $30.2 million and $66.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively.
     The following table summarizes the defined terms concerning the various entities impacted by the Transaction:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     (1) In September 2008, DHC and Advance/Newhouse combined their respective interests in DCH (the direct parent of Discovery). DHC and Advance/Newhouse directly own 66 /% and 33 /% of DCH, respectively. The transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement were completed via the following steps:
2
3
1
3
     For financial reporting purposes, the Company is the successor reporting entity to DHC and has been renamed DCI. Because Advance/Newhouse was a one-third owner of DCH prior to the completion of the Transaction and is a one-third owner of the Company (whose only significant asset is 100% of DCH) after completion of the transaction, there is no effective change in ownership. The convertible preferred stock does not have any special dividend rights and only a de minimus liquidation preference. Additionally, Advance/Newhouse retains significant participatory special class voting rights with respect to the Company parent company matters. Pursuant to FASB Technical Bulletin 85-5 and for accounting purposes, the Transaction will be treated as a nonsubstantive merger, and therefore, the Transaction will be recorded at the shareholders' historical basis.
     Certain tax-related amounts in the AMC historical column of these unaudited condensed pro forma combined financial statements are different than the corresponding amounts in Ascent Media Group's historical combined financial statements due to differences in the assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets and the resulting need for valuation allowances between DHC's consolidated financial statements (of which the AMC historical column is a part) and Ascent Media Group's historical combined financial statements. In this regard, certain deferred tax assets were deemed to
 
not be realizable in the DHC historical consolidated financial statements, but are deemed to be realizable by Ascent Media on a stand-alone basis.
     (2) Represents pro forma adjustments to reflect the Cox Transaction as if it had occurred on January 1, 2007 including the elimination of (i) revenue and expenses for Travel Channel for the period from January 1, 2007 through May 14, 2007 and (ii) the gain recognized by Discovery in connection with the Cox Transaction. Also includes additional interest expense for the period from January 1, 2007 through May 14, 2007 related to additional debt incurred by DCH in connection with the Cox Transaction.
     (3) Represents the issuance of the Company's preferred stock to Advance/Newhouse. As the Company will employ carryover-basis accounting, the convertible preferred stock is recorded at an amount equal to Advance/Newhouse's historical carrying value for its 33 /% ownership interest in DCH.
1
3
     (4) Represents the elimination of the historical investments in DCH and DCH's equity. The difference between the investment and equity represents excess basis and had been allocated by DHC as follows (amounts in thousands).
     The foregoing excess basis allocation is consistent with DHC's allocation of its equity method excess basis related to its investment in DCH, and is based on estimates of the fair value of such tangible and intangible assets as compared to the underlying book value, if any, reflected in DCH's historical financial statements for these assets. The fair value and useful life estimates were determined based on DHC's understanding of cable programming businesses in general and DCH's business, specifically.
     (5) Represents the elimination of DHC's historical deferred tax liability related to its investment in DCH with an offsetting elimination to equity.
     (6) Represents amortization of the program library step-up recorded in note 4.
     (7) Represents amortization of the amortizable intangible assets recorded in note 4.
     (8) Represents the elimination of DHC's historical share of earnings of DCH.
     (9) Represents the estimated income tax effects of the pro forma adjustments using an assumed tax rate of 39% and 45% for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. DCH's 2007 effective tax rate differed from 45% due to the tax-free nature of its gains from dispositions. See note 16 to DCH's consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 included in Part 3 of Appendix A of Amendment No. 3 to Form S-4 filed on August 6, 2008 for DCI for more information regarding DCH's 2007 income taxes.
 
Item 4.01 Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant.
Prior to the completion of the merger of DHC with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discovery on September 17, 2008, KPMG LLP ("KPMG") was DHC's independent registered public accounting firm. As the transaction was treated as a non-substantive merger for accounting purposes DHC is considered the predecessor registrant to Discovery.
In connection with the merger, Discovery made the decision to change its independent registered public accounting firm to PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP ("PwC") and dismissed KPMG as its independent registered public accounting firm as of September 18, 2008. This change was approved by Discovery's Audit Committee.
(a) The audit reports of KPMG on the consolidated financial statements of DHC as of and for the years ended December  31, 2007 and 2006 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, or qualification or modification as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles, except as follows: KPMG LLP's report on the consolidated financial statements of Discovery Holding Company and subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, contained a separate paragraph stating that effective January 1, 2006, Discovery Holding Company adopted SFAS 123R, . In addition, during DHC's two most recent fiscal years and through the date of dismissal of KPMG, there were no disagreements with KPMG on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreement(s), if not resolved to the satisfaction of KPMG, would have caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement(s) in connection with its report.
Share-Based Payment
The audit report of KPMG on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor was it qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles. The audit report of KPMG on management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor was it qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles.
There were no reportable events under Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K that occurred during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and through September 18, 2008.
The Company has provided KPMG with a copy of the foregoing disclosures and requested that KPMG furnish a letter addressed to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether it agreed with the above statements made by the Company. A copy of such letter, dated September 23, 2008, is filed as Exhibit 16.1 to this Form 8-K, and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) During the two most recent fiscal years and through September 18, 2008, DHC did not consult with PwC, regarding either (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed; or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on DHC's financial statements, and neither a written report was provided to DHC or oral advice was provided that DHC concluded was an important factor considered by DHC in reaching a decision as to an accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue other than those described below; or (ii) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement, as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1) (iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K, or a reportable event, as that term is defined in Item 304 (a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
PwC was the auditor of DHC's significant equity investee, Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH") for the three years ended December 31, 2007. Subsequent to the completion of the transaction described in Discovery's Form S-4, DCH now constitutes a majority of the operations of the Company and DCH's management is the same as the Company's accounting treatment section of the management. In their capacity as auditors of DCH, PwC was consulted on the accounting and reporting for the transactions described in the Company's Form S-4 to be effected in the Company's third fiscal quarter. The Company has provided PwC with a copy of the foregoing disclosures.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 17, 2008, pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, the Company appointed new executive officers and directors. The information required by this Item is contained in Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company also established the following committees of its Board of Directors:
Audit  M. LaVoy Robison, Chair, Lawrence Kramer, J. David Wargo Compensation  Robert J. Miron, Chair, Robert R. Beck, Paul A. Gould
Nominating and Corporate Governance  J. David Wargo, Chair, Paul A. Gould, Lawrence Kramer, Steven A. Miron, M. LaVoy Robison
 
Executive  John S. Hendricks, Chair, Robert Bennett, John Malone, Robert J. Miron, David Zaslav
On September 16, 2008, at DHC's Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholders approved amendments to the 2005 Incentive Plan. A description of those revisions is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.05 Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
On September 18, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which covers all employees and directors of the Company. The new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available at www.ir.corporate.discovery.com.
A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is attached hereto as Exhibit 14 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On September 17, 2008, DHC issued a press release announcing that the transactions pursuant to which Discovery would become a public company had been completed. The press release with the announcement is filed as an exhibit hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 14.1
I. Introduction
This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") applies to all directors, officers and employees of Discovery Communications, Inc. and its US and non-US subsidiaries and divisions (collectively, the "Company"). The Company requires the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct from its directors, officers and employees. The Company's directors, officers and employees (collectively, the "Discovery Team") are individually and collectively responsible for managing the Company's business activities in full compliance with the Code and applicable laws and regulations. You should carefully read this document. Where permitted by law, as a condition of employment at the Company, you must annually acknowledge that you have read and understand the Code. Officers and employees who violate the standards in this Code will be subject to disciplinary action, up to, and including, termination. Furthermore, violations of this Code may also be violations of the law and may result in civil or criminal penalties for you, your supervisor and/or the Company.
II. Purpose and Scope
You are expected to demonstrate the highest standards of ethical behavior and to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to the Company's business. The reputation of the Company, the quality of your work environment, and the satisfaction of the Company's obligations to stockholders depend on each member of the Discovery Team achieving these levels of conduct. The Code is intended to guide you to operate with the highest level of integrity in all business activities and to create an empowering work environment that fosters respect for each other and our clients.
1. Who Must Comply with the Code
The Code applies to Discovery Communications, Inc. and to all other companies in which Discovery Communications, Inc. directly or indirectly owns and has the right to vote shares or other interests representing more than 50% of the voting power of such companies ("Controlled Companies") with respect to the election of directors or similar officials, and to all directors, officers and employees of each. Any reference to "the Company" includes Discovery Communications, Inc.any of its US and non-US subsidiaries and divisions, and its Controlled Companies unless otherwise indicated. Any reference to "employees" includes directors, officers and employees of the Company and its Controlled Companies, unless otherwise indicated.
,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company, the Code will not apply to (i) any Controlled Company and its employees if the Controlled Company is an "issuer" as defined in Section 2(a)(7)
 
of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (generally, a company that files disclosure documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")) or (ii) any other Controlled Company that is excluded from the application of the Code by the Board.
2. How to Use the Code
The Code's purpose is to promote your ethical and legal behavior while you are conducting business activities on behalf of the Company. The Code should be treated as a guide in making day-to-day business decisions. The Code is not intended to address every legal or ethical question that may arise, nor does it replace other more detailed policies of the Company. Its purpose is to state basic principles and to provide you guidance in areas that bear special emphasis. You are expected to adhere to all approved corporate policies and procedures. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. The Company has in place detailed policies and procedures for a number of topics covered in this Code. These include, but are not limited to, policies and procedures governing financial reporting, trading in company securities, compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and public communications. The detailed policies and procedures are not a part of this Code. If a law conflicts with a policy in this Code you must comply with the law. Contact the Legal Department if you have any questions or if such circumstances arise.
3. How to Ask Questions and Communicate Concerns
If you want guidance regarding a particular practice or compliance issue, or if you wish to report a violation or questionable behavior, you should contact the Corporate Compliance Officer. The Corporate Compliance Officer may be different for various employees, but generally will be a person in the legal department or, in the absence of a more specific designation, the General Counsel or a person designated by that officer. If you want to contact the Corporate Compliance Officer but are not sure of his or her identity, you should contact the General Counsel or any other member of the Legal Department for that information.
You may also call the Ethics Hotline at (800) 398-6395 if you are calling from a location within the United States. If you are calling from outside the United States, you will need to provide a country-specific access code to complete the toll-free call. You can get the country-specific direct access dialing information by going to the following web site:and and following the instructions on the web site. The Ethics Hotline is operated by a third-party vendor and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Your calls will be taken in confidence and your concerns reported to Company personnel for appropriate action. Your calls to the Ethics Hotline may be made on an anonymous basis.
http://corporate.discovery.com/contact/ethics-hotline/
You may also send a letter or fax to the General Counsel at Discovery Communications, Inc., One Discovery Place, Silver Spring, MD 20910, fax number (240) 662-1491. Letters and faxes may be submitted anonymously.
 
If you have a concern regarding an accounting or auditing matter and wish to submit the concern confidentially or anonymously, you may do so by using the web-based reporting system described above, calling the Ethics Hotline or sending a letter or fax to the General Counsel of the Company as described above. Your message will be forwarded to the General Counsel who will evaluate the merits of any concerns received and authorize such follow-up actions, if any, as deemed necessary or appropriate to address the substance of the concern. The General Counsel will provide a summary to the Audit Committee of all concerns submitted as described above, and will provide periodic updates to the Audit Committee until a resolution for each concern is reached.
To the extent it is legally possible to do so, the Company will maintain the confidentiality of anyone who is requesting guidance or who is reporting a violation or other questionable behavior. The Code prohibits any employee from retaliating or taking any other adverse action against another for reporting a violation or raising a legal or ethical concern unless it is determined that the report was made with knowledge that it was false.
III. Rules for Ethical Conduct
1. Honest and Ethical Conduct
You must exhibit and promote the highest standards of honest and ethical conduct in all of your dealings relating to the business of the Company. That means, among other things, that you will work to develop business relationships through open and honest communications. You should not take unfair advantage of another through manipulation, concealment or abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unscrupulous practice. The Company will foster a culture of integrity and accountability, deter wrongdoing and promote fair and accurate disclosure and financial reporting.
In addition to adhering to all approved corporate policies and procedures, all members of the Discovery Team will:
 
2. Conflicts of Interest
You will act at all times in the Company's best interest and will use your best efforts to avoid the appearance of, as well as any actual, conflict of interest.
A "conflict of interest" may exist whenever a member of the Discovery Team's personal interests interfere  or even appear to interfere  in any way with the interests of the Company. A conflict may exist when you take actions or have interests that make it difficult to perform your work objectively and effectively. Conflicts may also arise when you or a member of your family receive an improper personal benefit as a result of your position in the Company, whether received from the Company or a third party.
Loans to, or guarantees of loans owed by, employees or their family members may create conflicts of interest or, in some cases, may be prohibited by law. In particular, for directors and executive officers, federal law prohibits public companies from directly or indirectly extending or maintaining credit, or arranging for the extension of credit in the form of a personal loan, to any director or executive officer of the Company.
This Code does not attempt to describe all possible conflicts of interest which could develop.
You should promptly report any situation that may involve an actual or potential conflict of interest to the General Counsel or another person described under "Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior" below. Any transaction or other conflict of interest situation involving an employee, if fully disclosed and approved by the General Counsel in consultation with the employee's supervisor, will not be deemed to violate, or create a waiver under, this Code.
3. Gifts and Payments
You will not offer, give, solicit or accept any form of bribe, payoff, unlawful gratuity or kickback to or from any person. In addition to being a violation of this Code, such conduct may subject the Company and the involved individuals to civil or criminal penalties. Discovery Team members also should refrain from receiving gifts in circumstances that may give rise to an actual or apparent conflict of interest.
You may give or accept gifts, or permit immediate family members to give or accept gifts, from any customer, vendor or other person doing or seeking to do business with the Company so long as doing so (i) complies with applicable law, (ii) does not violate any Company policy and (iii) is consistent with accepted business practices and customs, including practice and custom in the locale where business is being conducted. The Company encourages discretion and moderation when providing or accepting gifts or entertainment that are intended to serve legitimate business goals.
Illegal payments, gifts, travel or provision of other items or services of value to government officials are strictly prohibited. With respect to foreign activities, the U.S.
 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to foreign government officials or foreign political candidates in order to obtain or retain business.
4. Confidential or Proprietary Information
You will maintain the confidentiality of personnel information as well as proprietary information entrusted to us by the Company or other companies, including vendors and customers, except when disclosure is authorized or legally required. Confidential information may include, for example, non-public information that might be of use to a competitor of the Company, or harmful to the Company or its vendors or customers, if disclosed. Personnel information maintained by the Company regarding past and present officers and employees is afforded confidential treatment at all times. The Company will take reasonable steps to ensure that all confidential personal information related to its employees is protected, except where disclosure is required by applicable law or judicial process. Confidential information obtained in the course of employment with the Company may not be used for personal gain during or after the term of employment.
You will comply with laws and other legal requirements governing rights to and protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other forms of intellectual property owned by the Company and third parties. You will use software and information only in accordance with applicable licenses or other rights of use.
5. Equal Employment Opportunity
The Company is an equal opportunity employer. The Company is committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, marital status, military or veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable federal, state and local laws and governing authorities.
The principles of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) apply to all terms and conditions of employment, including, but not limited to, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, leaves of absence, compensation, and training.
The Company expressly prohibits any form of unlawful employee harassment based on race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, marital status, military or veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. Improper interference with the ability of the Company's employees to perform their expected job duties is absolutely not tolerated.
6. Harassment
It is the Company's policy that employees and others acting on the Company's behalf are entitled to respectful treatment in the workplace. Being treated respectfully means one is treated honestly and professionally, with his or her unique talents and perspectives
 
valued. A respectful workplace is about more than compliance with the law. It is a working environment that is free of inappropriate behavior of all kinds including sexual harassment and discrimination based on age, disability, marital status, race or color, national origin, religion, sex or sexual orientation, gender identity, military or veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. Harassment is unwelcome conduct toward an individual because of his or her age, disability, marital status, national origin, race or color, religion, sex or sexual orientation, gender identity, military or veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law, that creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment that (i) causes work performance to suffer or (ii) negatively affects job opportunities. Sexual harassment is harassment that is based on a person's sex or that is sex-based behavior. It is also sexual harassment for anyone in a position of authority to tie hiring, promotion, termination or any other condition of employment to a request or demand for sexual favors. Incidents of harassment and inappropriate behavior will not be tolerated in the workplace or in other work-related settings such as business trips and business-related social events.
The Company will investigate all complaints of harassment or inappropriate behavior. Where there has been a violation of policy, the Company will take appropriate action in accordance with applicable local law to address the situation and seek to avoid future violations.
7. Protection and Proper Use of the Company's Assets
You will protect the Company's assets and will use your best efforts to ensure their proper and efficient use. As a general rule, all equipment, systems, services, networks, and software belonging to the Company should be used for legitimate business purposes, except for "limited personal use" that does not interfere with the Company's business. Your illegal or unauthorized use of Company assets at any time may subject you to disciplinary action up to and including legal action and/or termination of employment. You may not access Company data unless you are authorized and have a Discovery Communications, Inc. business-related need to do so. Unauthorized possession, modification, destruction, use, or disclosure of such data is prohibited. Making, acquiring, or using unauthorized copies of any computer software is not permitted. For purposes of this Code, "limited personal use" includes, but is not limited to, writing a personal letter, making a telephone call to a friend or family member, sending a personal e-mail message, accessing the web, etc., so long as such activities do not interfere with your job responsibilities. Conversely, and by way of example, it does not include using Company assets to operate a side business.
8. Compliance with Laws and Regulatory Requirements
The Company conducts business internationally. As a result, our operations are subject to the laws of many countries, provinces, states and other jurisdictions. You will respect and comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the United States and the states, counties, cities, countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company conducts its business or which are otherwise applicable to the Company. In general, the local laws and
 
regulations should govern. If you become aware of the violation of any law, rule or regulation by the Company, whether by employees or any third party doing business on behalf of the Company, it is your responsibility to promptly report the matter to the Corporate Compliance Officer. While it is the Company's desire to address matters internally, nothing in this Code should discourage you from reporting any illegal activity, including any violation of the securities laws, antitrust laws, environmental laws or any other federal, state or foreign law, rule or regulation, to the appropriate regulatory authority. Where questions arise as to any conflict between local law and this Code, the Legal Department should be contacted for guidance.
9. Prohibition Against Insider Trading
The obligation to comply with applicable legal requirements means, among other things, that you will comply with laws applicable to the buying and selling of securities. In conducting business on behalf of the Company, you may become aware of material non-public information about the Company or one of its vendors, customers or other companies with which the Company may have dealings. Information is "material" if a reasonable investor would consider such information important in deciding to buy or sell securities of the company in question. Persons who have access to such information are often referred to as "insiders." You should only discuss material non-public information with other employees on a limited, "need to know" basis. You should not share such information with others outside the Company other than persons, such as outside counsel and others engaged by the Company to provide assistance, and then only on a "need to know" basis.
You should not trade in securities of a company, including Discovery Communications, Inc., if you are in possession of material non-public information about that company, and should not share (sometimes referred to as "tipping") such information with others. "Insider trading" and "tipping" are serious violations and can result in severe sanctions, including criminal penalties. Accordingly, you should consult with the General Counsel before buying or selling securities in circumstances where the use of material non-public information may be involved.
10. Record-Keeping, Financial Controls and Disclosure
The Company will seek to assure that any filing with the SEC, as well as other public disclosures by or on behalf of the Company, will be timely and understandable and will be fair, accurate and complete in all material respects. The Company is subject to extensive and complex accounting requirements. All of the Company's books, records, accounts and financial statements should be maintained in reasonable detail, should appropriately reflect the Company's transactions, and should conform both to applicable legal requirements and to the Company's system of internal controls. Employees who are responsible for statutory reporting outside the United States must comply with the specific laws and regulations of the host country. No undisclosed or unrecorded account or fund shall be established for any purpose. No false or misleading entries shall be made in the Company's books or records for any reason, and no disbursement of corporate
 
funds or other corporate property shall be made without adequate supporting documentation. You should not take any action intended to influence the Company's auditors or persons conducting a properly authorized regulatory inquiry in an improper manner or to influence the conduct of an audit of Company financial statements. Each employee involved in the Company's disclosure process should be familiar with, and should comply with, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, including internal controls over financial reporting, in each case to the extent relevant to the employee's responsibilities, so that the reports and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC will comply in all material respects with applicable federal securities laws and SEC rules. Each employee having authority regarding those SEC filings or other public communications concerning the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects should consult with others in a position to assist with such disclosures to assure, to the extent possible, that such disclosures will be made in a timely fashion and, when made, will be accurate and complete in all material respects.
11. Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior
You have the right and the obligation to seek and obtain guidance about a compliance issue or business practice. You should contact the General Counsel concerning observed illegal or unethical behavior. You also may discuss these matters with an immediate supervisor or other manager, a human resources manager or a member of the legal department. You are expected to cooperate fully with any inquiry or investigation by the Company regarding an alleged violation of this Code. Failure to cooperate with any such inquiry or investigation may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
12. No Retaliation
The Company will not permit retaliation against any employee who, in good faith, seeks advice concerning, or who reports or complains of violations of, this Code or other illegal or unethical conduct. If, however, an employee makes a report of a violation or of questionable behavior with knowledge that it was false, the reporting employee will be subject to disciplinary action.
13. Amendment, Modification and Waiver
This Code may be amended, modified or waived by the Board at any time for any reason. The most current version of this Code can be found at on the Company's website. Waivers also may be granted by an independent committee of the Board designated by the Board to grant such waivers. Any waiver of the Code for directors or executive officers of the Company will be promptly disclosed as required by applicable SEC or stock exchange rules.
http://ir.corporate.discovery.com
This document is not an employment contract between the Company and any of its employees, officers or directors.

Exhibit 16.1
September 23, 2008
Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, D.C. 20549
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We were previously principal accountants for Discovery Holding Company and, under the date of February 14, 2008, we reported on the consolidated financial statements of Discovery Holding Company as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. On September 18, 2008, we were dismissed. We have read Discovery Communications, Inc.'s statements included under Item 4.01(a) of its Form 8-K dated September 17, 2008, and we agree with such statements.
Very truly yours,
/s/ KPMG LLP

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Executive Officers and Directors
 
 
 
 
 
The executive officers named above will serve in such capacities until the annual meeting of Discovery's board of directors following completion of the Transaction, or until their respective successors have been duly elected and have been qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal from office.
 
Except for Steven A. Miron being the son of Robert J. Miron, there is no family relationship among any of Discovery's executive officers or directors, by blood, marriage or adoption.
 
During the past five years, none of the above persons has had any involvement in such legal proceedings as would be material to an evaluation of his or her ability or integrity.
 
 
 
Executive Compensation Arrangements
 
John Hendricks
 
John Hendricks, the founder and Chairman of Discovery, does not have a formal employment agreement with Discovery. Pursuant to resolutions adopted by Discovery's stockholders in 2004, Mr. Hendricks is paid an annual salary of $1 million and his bonus opportunity is 60% of annual salary. As described in "Compensation Discussion and Analysis  Elements of Compensation  Bonus," Mr. Hendricks' actual bonus varies from year-to-year.
.  
Employment Arrangements with Discovery
 
In 2004, Mr. Hendricks and the stockholders of Discovery's predecessor () entered into an agreement, which is reflected in a letter agreement between DCI's compensation committee and Mr. Hendricks (the ). The 2004 Agreement includes special rules for Mr. Hendricks' DAP units and the conditions under which he continues to serve as Chairman of Discovery, each as described below.
DCI
2004 Agreement
 
Mr. Hendricks' DAP units replaced units that had been granted under the then-Discovery Communications, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan (). Discovery established the DAP in 2005 following the DHC spin-off. In the 2004 Agreement, the parties agreed to additional terms governing Mr. Hendricks' EIP units, which, to the extent relevant, continue to govern Mr. Hendricks' DAP units that were issued to replace the EIP units, and any replenishment DAP units issued with respect thereto. Specifically, the parties agreed that Mr. Hendricks' EIP units that have not yet vested may be rescinded, and any vested EIP units may be subject to a forced cash out (and paid to Mr. Hendricks) to prevent further appreciation, but only by either (i) the unanimous action of DCI's stockholders if the company has not gone public, or (ii) the vote of two-thirds of the DCI board of directors, including the votes of any board members representing the current DCI stockholders, in the event that the company has gone public.
EIP
 
In addition, under the 2004 Agreement, the earned value of any vested EIP units that have not already been subject to rescission or forced cash out may not be rescinded by DCI or forfeited by Mr. Hendricks except (i) as provided under the EIP in the event of his voluntary departure and subsequent work for a competitor, or (ii) in the event of his conviction for any act of fraud or any other felony in connection with DCI, in which case the value of any vested EIP units may be subject to partial or complete forfeiture upon the unanimous action of DCI's stockholders. Under the provisions of the DAP that now apply to Mr. Hendricks' previous EIP units, in the event of Mr. Hendricks' voluntary departure and subsequent work for a competitor, Mr. Hendricks would receive 75% of the value of his vested DAP units. Under the DAP, a participant, including Mr. Hendricks, who voluntarily terminates employment ordinarily receives 100% of the value of his vested DAP units if he signs a release that includes a covenant not to compete.
 
Pursuant to the 2004 Agreement, the DCI stockholders and Mr. Hendricks agreed that he would remain in the position of Chairman of the Board of DCI. The 2004 Agreement confirms the agreement between Mr. Hendricks and the DCI stockholders that Mr. Hendricks may be removed from the position of Chairman of DCI at any time for any reason, but only by unanimous action of the DCI stockholders if the company has not gone public, or the vote of two-thirds of the DCI board of directors, including the votes of any board members representing any of the current DCI stockholders, in the event that the company has gone public.
 
In connection with the Transaction, the member representatives and Mr. Hendricks determined to revise the foregoing arrangements. The revisions to the DAP arrangements are described below under the heading " Equity
 
Stake Transition Term Sheet," and the revisions to his employment arrangement are described below under the heading " Employment Letter."
 
  On July 29, 2008, the member representatives and Mr. Hendricks reached an agreement in principle with respect to the treatment of Mr. Hendricks' DAP awards following the closing of the Transaction, the principal terms of which are reflected in a term sheet (the executed by Mr. Hendricks and the member representatives. Definitive agreements are expected to be entered into following the closing of the Transaction.
.
Equity Stake Transition Term Sheet
Hendricks Term Sheet)
 
As discussed in the Hendricks Term Sheet, Mr. Hendricks' original equity holding in Discovery (i.e., his founder's equity) was replaced over the years with phantom equity and appreciation units, which were deemed to be more appropriate for a private company with no public market value. Today, his phantom equity takes the form of DAP awards with respect to 6,653,300 units. Mr. Hendricks and the member representatives determined that it would be appropriate following the closing of the Transaction to convert Mr. Hendricks' DAP units into stock options under the 2005 incentive plan (as assumed by Discovery), thereby replicating his founder's equity in connection with the creation of the new public company. It should be noted that the treatment of Mr. Hendricks' DAP units described below was a separately negotiated transaction and does not affect, in any way, the treatment of the outstanding DAP awards generally. As discussed under "Executive Compensation  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  Elements of Compensation  Discovery Appreciation Program  Adjustments to DAP Awards," no determinations have yet been made with respect to the post-closing treatment of the DAP awards generally (other than the closing-related adjustments described therein).
 
Under the Hendricks Term Sheet, upon the vesting of Mr. Hendricks' existing tranches of DAP units, vested DAP units will be paid in cash and replaced with grants of nonqualified stock options to acquire shares of Discovery Series A common stock under the 2005 incentive plan (as assumed by Discovery) on a one-for-one basis. Based on the scheduled vesting dates for Mr. Hendricks' DAP awards, the Hendricks Term Sheet provides that he will receive the following option grants:
 
 
The foregoing options (collectively, the will vest ratably over four years and will expire in 2018. The Founder Options described above are based on the number of DAP units currently held by Mr. Hendricks. The actual number of shares subject to the Founder Options will be equal to the number of DAP units held by Mr. Hendricks following the adjustment of his outstanding DAP awards in connection with the closing of the Transaction. For a description of these adjustments, see "Executive Compensation  Compensation Discussion and Analysis  Elements of Compensation  Discovery Appreciation Program  Adjustments to DAP Awards."
Founder Options)
 
With respect to the 2008 grant of Founder Options only:
 
 
 
The Founder Options cover all equity awards to be made to Mr. Hendricks through 2018 (other than any future grants which may be made in the discretion of the New Discovery compensation committee). Mr. Hendricks will have no right to a reload of additional grants upon vesting or exercise of any Founder Options.
 
If Mr. Hendricks' employment is terminated for "cause" (as defined in the Hendricks Term Sheet), the Founder Options will be forfeited. If Mr. Hendricks' employment is terminated (1) as result of death, "disability" or "retirement" (in each case, as defined in the Hendricks Term Sheet) or (2) by Discovery other than for "cause," the Founder Options will vest immediately and remain exercisable for their original term. If Mr. Hendricks voluntarily terminates his employment (other than as described in the previous two sentences), any Founder Options not vested on the date of termination will be forfeited, and the vested Founder Options will remain exercisable for one year following the termination (but not beyond their original term). The right of Mr. Hendricks to exercise the Founder Options during any period of time following termination of employment pursuant to items (1) and (2) above is conditioned upon him signing a general liability release and abiding by a non-compete. If such release is not signed or if the non-compete is breached, no Founder Options may be exercised after the date of termination and any gains from the post-termination exercise of Founder Options may be clawed-back by Discovery.
 
As defined in the Hendricks Term Sheet:
 
 
All awards under the 2005 incentive plan (as assumed by Discovery), including the Founder Options, must be approved by the compensation committee of the Discovery board. Accordingly, the definitive agreements relating to the Hendricks Term Sheet will become effective upon their approval by the Discovery compensation committee at its first meeting following the completion of the Transaction.
 
  On July 30, 2008, Mr. Hendricks entered into a letter agreement with the member representatives (the ) governing his employment with Discovery following the Transaction. Under the Hendricks Letter, Mr. Hendricks will be employed as a senior executive of Discovery, with the title of Founder, for 10 years beginning upon the completion of the Transaction. Mr. Hendricks will report directly to the board of Discovery, and his employment may only be terminated by the Discovery board upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Discovery board (excluding Mr. Hendricks). Mr. Hendricks will be entitled to an annual salary of $1 million and will be eligible to receive an annual incentive-based compensation award with a target of 60% of his salary (subject to adjustment by the New Discovery board). The actual amount paid to Mr. Hendricks for any incentive-based compensation award will be determined in the sole discretion of the Discovery compensation committee. Mr. Hendricks will also be entitled to participate in the employee benefits arrangements that Discovery makes generally available to its senior management.
.
Employment Letter
Hendricks Letter
 
The Hendricks Letter provides that the member representatives currently contemplate that Mr. Hendricks will serve as Chairman of the Board of Discovery, but his election to (and removal from) that position will be subject to the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Discovery board (and is further subject to Advance/Newhouse's special voting rights). During Mr. Hendricks' employment with Discovery, he will not be entitled to receive any additional compensation for serving on the Discovery board.
 
Effective upon completion of the Transaction, the Hendricks Term Sheet and the Hendricks Letter will supersede all prior employment arrangements between Mr. Hendricks and Discovery (including the 2004 agreement and the board resolutions described above).
 
Zaslav Employment Agreement
 
Discovery has entered into an employment agreement with David Zaslav, its President and Chief Executive Officer, for an original term of five years commencing on January 2, 2007, with automatic one year extensions (subject to termination by either party prior to the commencement of an extension period). Pursuant to this agreement, Mr. Zaslav is entitled to receive a base salary of $2 million per annum and an annual bonus. During the first year of employment, Mr. Zaslav was entitled to receive and did receive a guaranteed bonus of $3 million. During each of the remaining four years of the original term of the agreement, Mr. Zaslav will be entitled to receive a guaranteed annual bonus, equal to $2 million for the second year of employment, $1.5 million for the third year of employment, and $1 million for each of the fourth and fifth years of employment. There is no guaranteed bonus amount for any extension period. After the first year of employment, Mr. Zaslav may earn a performance-based bonus in excess of the guaranteed bonus amount applicable to a particular year. The amount of the performance-based bonus will depend on the achievement of qualitative and quantitative performance criteria. The compensation committee of the Discovery board will determine the quantitative and qualitative performance criteria for Mr. Zaslav's annual bonuses going forward. Mr. Zaslav also received a signing bonus of $2.5 million pursuant to the agreement. Mr. Zaslav receives 4 weeks of vacation under his agreement.
 
Pursuant to the employment agreement, Discovery was required to reimburse Mr. Zaslav for reasonable expenses incurred in relocating his principal residence, including temporary housing, closing and realtor costs and packing and transport expenses, subject to a maximum reimbursement of $250,000. In addition, during 2007 and a portion of 2008, Mr. Zaslav is entitled to limited personal use of aircraft under Discovery's NetJets agreement for commuting between his residence and Discovery's offices. Under the agreement, to the extent any expense associated with Mr. Zaslav's use of the aircraft is not deductible by Discovery, he will reimburse Discovery for the loss of any tax benefit or, at his election, pay for the use of such aircraft in a manner such that no portion of the expense is nondeductible.
 
Mr. Zaslav is also entitled to other perquisites, such as a monthly car allowance and certain mobile technology, as well as the ability to participate in all employee benefit plans available to Discovery's senior executive group.
 
On his start date, Mr. Zaslav received a DAP award with respect to 4 million units pursuant to the terms of his agreement. The terms of this award are substantially similar to the standard terms of the DAP awards described in "Compensation Discussion and Analysis  Elements of Compensation  Discovery Appreciation Program" above, except as to the noted difference in pricing, the accelerated vesting described below and Mr. Zaslav's right to receive replenishment grants on each maturity date of his original award. If Mr. Zaslav is terminated without "cause" or he terminates his employment for "good reason" (in each case, as defined in the agreement), his DAP awards all accelerate with the amount to be paid and the timing of such payment to be based on his termination date. If, however, any such termination occurs prior to the fifth anniversary of his start date, / of his vested DAP awards will be valued as of the date of termination with the remaining / being valued as of their respective regular maturity dates or the fifth anniversary of his start date, whichever is earlier, in each case for purposes of determining the amount and timing of the payments to be made to him.
1
2
1
2
 
Upon any termination of his employment, Mr. Zaslav is entitled to all accrued and unpaid salary and bonus, accrued and unused vacation days and benefits accrued under Discovery's welfare and retirement plans. In addition, Mr. Zaslav is entitled to certain severance payments in the event he is terminated without "cause" or by reason of death or disability or he terminates his employment for "good reason" (in each case, as defined in the agreement). The payment of Mr. Zaslav's severance is conditioned on his execution of a release in favor of Discovery. For more
 
information regarding these severance payments, please see " Potential Payments Upon Termination or below.
Change-in-Control"
 
Pursuant to Mr. Zaslav's employment agreement, he is subject to customary restrictive covenants, including those relating to non-solicitation, non-interference, non-competition and confidentiality, during the term of his employment with Discovery and for a period thereafter.
 
Discovery's members and Mr. Zaslav currently are discussing possible revisions to Mr. Zaslav's employment agreement. The revisions will be described once they are finalized.
 
Campbell Employment Agreement
 
Discovery entered into an employment agreement with Bruce L. Campbell, its President, Digital Media & Corporate Development, on March 13, 2007. This agreement was amended and restated on April 2, 2008 to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The term of employment is for four years beginning on March 19, 2007 and ending March 18, 2011, with automatic one-year extensions (subject to termination by either party prior to the commencement of an extension period). Pursuant to this employment agreement, Mr. Campbell's
 
base salary is $800,000 per annum, with minimum yearly increases of no less than $50,000. Mr. Campbell is also eligible to receive an annual performance bonus under the ICP with his target bonus equal to 75% of his then-base salary, with a minimum bonus payment for fiscal year 2007 equal to 75% of his prorated 2007 base salary.
 
Under his employment agreement, Mr. Campbell received a DAP award on March 19, 2007 consisting of 700,000 units. The terms of this award are substantially similar to the standard terms of the DAP awards described in "Compensation Discussion and Analysis  Elements of Compensation  Discovery Appreciation Program" above, except if Mr. Campbell voluntarily terminates his employment other than for "good reason" (as defined therein), he would forfeit all rights under his DAP awards. Mr. Campbell is also entitled to all benefits available to similarly situated executives of Discovery and is subject to customary covenants as to confidentiality and non-competition.
 
Under Mr. Campbell's employment agreement, he is entitled to severance if Discovery terminates his employment other than for "cause" or if he terminates for "good reason" (in each case, as defined therein). The payment of Mr. Campbell's severance is conditioned on his execution of a release in favor of Discovery. In the event Discovery provides notice to Mr. Campbell that it will not extend his employment for any applicable period, Mr. Campbell is entitled to a non-renewal payment. For more information regarding these payments, please see "Potential Payments Upon Termination or below.
Change-in-Control"
 
Singer Employment Agreement
 
Discovery entered into an employment agreement with Brad Singer, its Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, for an original term of three years commencing on July 15, 2008, with one automatic three year extension (subject to termination by either party prior to the commencement of an extension period). Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Singer will receive a sign-on bonus of $35,000. The agreement provides Mr. Singer a base salary of $750,000 per annum, subject to annual increases in accordance with Discovery's standard practices and procedures. Mr. Singer is also eligible to receive an annual performance bonus with a payment target of 75% of his base salary. For fiscal year 2008 only, Mr. Singer is entitled to receive a guaranteed bonus of $470,000 and is eligible for an additional discretionary bonus in the sole discretion of the CEO and the compensation committee of the Discovery board based on individual performance and the success of Discovery's transition to a public company.
 
Pursuant to the agreement, Discovery is required to reimburse Mr. Singer for reasonable expenses incurred in relocating his principal residence in accordance with Discovery's relocation policies, provided that the maximum reimbursement afforded under Discovery's relocation policy is increased to $1,750,000 (including financial loss protection on sale of his then current residence and tax gross ups). Reimbursement for relocation expenses is subject to continued employment and may be required to be repaid on a resignation without "good reason" or a termination for "cause" (in each case, as defined in the agreement) within 18 months of employment commencement.
 
Mr. Singer's agreement provides that he will be recommended for stock option awards with respect to Discovery to be made if Discovery becomes a public company within 18 months following his employment commencement. The awards will consist of a sign-on award valued at $3 million under the assumptions below and an additional award valued at $1.6 million on the same assumptions. For purposes of determining the shares subject to the awards, the values stated above will be divided by the Black-Scholes value of DHC's common stock as of his commencement date (using Discovery's standard Black-Scholes assumptions for compensatory purposes). The options will be priced at the higher of the DHC price on employment commencement and the price of Discovery stock on option grant. If Discovery's stock price is higher, resulting in an upward price adjustment, Mr. Singer will be entitled to a cash payment of the difference, payable 75% on the third anniversary of employment commencement and 25% on the fourth anniversary, assuming continued employment at those dates (or, for the sign-on option, a prior termination without cause or resignation for good reason). The number of shares covered by the options the price may be adjusted as appropriate to reflect the use of Discovery stock rather than the stock of DHC. The options will vest at a rate of no less than 25% per year, beginning July 15, 2009. The sign-on option will include full vesting if Mr. Singer is terminated without "cause" or he terminates his employment for "good reason" or the original term is not extended. The agreement also provides that he may be recommended for additional option grants. If Discovery does not become a reporting company within 18 months, Discovery, in lieu of the foregoing, will provide him with an equity interest in Discovery with a value of
and/or
 
$4.6 million, adjusted to reflect changes in value since employment commencement, in a form determined by Discovery's board and reasonably acceptable to Mr. Singer.
 
Mr. Singer is also entitled to participate in employee benefit plans available to executives at his level at the company and is subject to customary covenants as to confidentiality and non-competition.
 
In the event that Mr. Singer is terminated without "cause" (including by contract non-extension) or he terminates his employment for "good reason," he is entitled to payment of his base salary for the remainder of his employment term, but not less than 12 months' base salary, pro-rated bonus and vesting of the sign-on option (as described above). These payments are conditioned on his execution of a release in favor of Discovery. Mr. Singer also is entitled to payment on death or disability as provided in the agreement.
 
 
 
Compensation of Directors
 
In accordance with existing practice of DHC, it is expected that directors of Discovery who are also employees of Discovery will receive no additional compensation for their services as directors. Each non-employee director of New Discovery will receive compensation for services as a director of Discovery and, if applicable, for services as a member of any board committee, as will be determined by Discovery's board of directors.
 
It is expected that in connection with the Transaction, the Discovery Holding Company 2005 Nonemployee Director Incentive Plan will be assumed by Discovery. Under this plan (as so assumed), it is expected that New Discovery will provide equity incentive awards, including stock options, restricted shares, stock appreciation rights and performance awards, to its nonemployee directors following the closing of the Transaction. The plan is designed to provide awards in those circumstances in which either (i) the award would help better align the interests of a recipient with those of the stockholders and help motivate the recipient to increase the value of the company for the stockholders or (ii) the award would assist the company in attracting non-employees directors.
 
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 
Michael J. Donohue, the of John Hendricks, has been employed by Discovery since 1983, shortly after the founding of the company by Mr. Hendricks in 1982. In connection with the Transaction, Mr. Hendricks will become the Chairman of the Board and a director of Discovery. Mr. Donohue currently serves as Director of Credit Risk and Analysis in Discovery's finance department. For 2007, Mr. Donohue received cash compensation of approximately $164,000 (which includes base salary, incentive compensation under the ICP and payments under the DAP). On vesting of his DAP units in 2007, Mr. Donohue received 3,750 additional DAP units. Mr. Donohue participates in Discovery's employee benefit programs on the same basis as other employees at his level in the company.
brother-in-law
 
Mr. Hendricks is involved in a leadership role with numerous nonprofit organizations, many of which have missions that are aligned with Discovery's business philosophy. Mr. Hendricks and the John and Maureen Hendricks Charitable Foundation provide significant funding to these organizations and Discovery also has made charitable contributions or payments to these organizations. In 2007, amounts in excess of $120,000 were contributed or paid by Discovery to the following organizations in which Mr. Hendricks serves as a director or in another leadership role as indicated.
 
 
 
 
Mr. Hendricks's personal investment business, HIH, previously leased office space from Discovery and received information technology and various other support services from Discovery. In early 2007, HIH moved these activities to other office space located near the Discovery headquarters building. Co-located at the HIH offices are The John and Maureen Hendricks Charitable Foundation. At the new location, Discovery continues to provide various support services to HIH, including administrative, technology and office support services. HIH reimburses Discovery for its incremental costs for these services. In 2007, total costs incurred by Discovery and billed to HIH for these services were $245,411.
 
Steve Sidel, the of Mr. Robert J. Miron and the brother-in-law of Mr. Steven Miron (who will be directors of New Discovery), has been employed by Discovery for approximately 11 years and is currently employed in Discovery's Education division. For 2007, Mr. Sidel received cash compensation of approximately $864,000 (which includes base salary, incentive compensation under the ICP and payments under the DAP). On vesting of his DAP units in 2007, Mr. Sidel received 25,000 additional DAP units. Mr. Sidel participates in Discovery's employee benefit programs on the same basis as other employees at his level in the company.
son-in-law
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
General
 
The incentive plan will be administered by the compensation committee of the Discovery board or a subcommittee thereof, which we refer to in this section as the "compensation committee." The Discovery board will select the members of the compensation committee promptly following the closing of the Transaction. Each member of the compensation committee is expected to be a "non-employee director" within the meaning of of the Exchange Act, and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. The compensation committee will have the full power and authority to grant eligible persons the awards described below and determine the terms and conditions under which any awards are made.
Rule 16b-3
 
The incentive plan is designed to provide additional remuneration to certain employees and independent contractors for their exceptional service and to encourage their investment in Discovery. The incentive plan is also intended to (1) attract persons of exceptional ability to become officers and employees of Discovery, and (2) induce independent contractors to provide services to Discovery. Discovery's employees (including employees who are officers or directors of Discovery or any of its subsidiaries) and independent contractors are eligible to participate and may be granted awards under the incentive plan. Awards may be made to any such employee, officer or contractor whether or not he or she holds or has held awards under this plan or under any other plan of Discovery or any of its affiliates.
 
The compensation committee may grant a number of awards, consisting of non-qualified stock options, SARs, restricted shares, stock units, cash awards, performance awards or any combination of the foregoing under the incentive plan. The maximum number of shares of any series of Discovery common stock with respect to which awards may be issued under the incentive plan is 42 million. With the exception of certain awards that have been accelerated, no person may be granted in any calendar year awards covering more than 6 million shares of Discovery stock. In addition, no person may receive payment for cash awards during any calendar year in excess of $10 million.
 
Shares of common stock of Discovery will be made available from either the authorized but unissued shares or shares that have been issued but reacquired by Discovery. Shares of the common stock of Discovery that are subject to (1) any award that expires, terminates or is annulled for any reason without having been exercised, (2) any award of any SARs that is exercised for cash, and (3) any award of restricted shares or stock units that shall be forfeited prior to becoming vested, will once again be available for distribution under the incentive plan.
 
The compensation committee also has the power to:
 
 
 
 
The number of individuals who will receive awards under the incentive plan will vary from year to year and will depend on the determinations of the compensation committee. The compensation committee may take various factors into consideration, such as the number of promotions and the hiring needs during the year, and thus there cannot be a determination of the number of future award recipients. As of June 30, Discovery and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,000 employees, all of whom will be eligible to participate in the incentive plan. The compensation committee will determine in its sole discretion which employees will receive awards under the incentive plan.
 
 
 
Stock Options
 
Non-qualified stock options entitle the holder to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock at a specified exercise price subject to the terms and conditions of the option grant. The price at which options may be exercised under the incentive plan may be no less than the fair market value of a share of the applicable series of Discovery common stock as of the day the option is granted. Options granted under the incentive plan are generally non-transferable during the lifetime of an option holder, except as permitted by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
SARs entitle the recipient to receive a payment in stock (plus cash in lieu of fractional shares) or a cash payment equal to the excess value of the stock over the base price specified in the grant. A SAR may be granted to an option holder with respect to all or a portion of the shares of common stock subject to the related option (a ) or granted separately to an eligible employee (a ). Tandem SARs are exercisable only to the extent that the related option is exercisable. Upon the exercise or termination of the related option, the related tandem SAR will be automatically cancelled to the extent of the number of our shares of common stock with respect to which the related option was so exercised or terminated. Free-standing SARs are exercisable at the time and upon the terms and conditions as provided in the relevant agreement. The base price of a free-standing SAR may be no less than the fair market value of a share of the applicable series of our common stock as of the day the free-standing SAR is granted. SARs granted under the DHC incentive plan are also generally non-transferable during the lifetime of a SAR holder, except as permitted by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order.
tandem SAR
free-standing SAR
 
Restricted Shares
 
Restricted shares are shares of common stock of Discovery that become vested and may be transferred upon completion of the restriction period. Restricted shares may be issued at either the beginning or end of the restriction period. Individual agreements may provide that dividend equivalents will be paid during the restriction period in the event that shares are to be issued at the end of the restriction period. An agreement under which restricted shares are issued may provide that the holder of the shares may also be paid a cash amount any time after the shares become vested. Upon the applicable vesting date, all or the applicable portion of restricted shares will vest, any retained distributions or unpaid dividend equivalents with respect to the restricted shares will vest to the extent that the restricted shares related thereto have vested, and any related cash amount to be received by the holder with respect to the restricted shares will become payable.
 
Stock Units
 
Shares of Discovery common stock or units based upon the fair market value of Discovery common stock may also be awarded under the incentive plan. The compensation committee has the power to determine the terms, conditions, restrictions, vesting requirements and payment rules for awards of stock units.
 
Cash Awards
 
The compensation committee may also provide for the grant of cash awards. A cash award is a bonus paid in cash that is based solely upon the attainment of one or more performance goals that have been established by the compensation committee. The terms, condition and limitations applicable to any cash awards will be determined by the compensation committee.
 
Performance Awards
 
At the discretion of the compensation committee, any of the above-described awards, including cash awards, may be designated a performance award. Performance awards will be contingent upon performance measures applicable to a particular period, as established by the compensation committee, based upon any one or more of the following:
 
 
Such performance measures may apply to the holder, to one or more business units, divisions or subsidiaries of Discovery or the applicable sector of the company, or to Discovery as a whole. Goals may also be based upon performance relative to a peer group of companies. If the compensation committee intends for the performance award to be granted and administered in a manner that preserves the deductibility of the compensation
 
resulting from such award in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, the performance goals must be established in writing (1) no later than 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the performance goals relate and (2) prior to the completion of 25% of such period of service. The compensation committee may modify or waive the performance goals or conditions to the granting or vesting of a performance award unless the performance award is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
Awards Generally
 
The awards described above may be granted either individually, in tandem or in combination with each other. Under certain conditions, including the occurrence of an approved transaction, a board change or a control purchase (all as defined in the incentive plan), options and SARs will become immediately exercisable, the restrictions on restricted shares will lapse and stock units will become fully vested, unless individual agreements state otherwise. In addition, if a holder's service terminates due to death or disability (as defined in the incentive plan), options and SARs will become immediately exercisable, the restrictions on restricted shares will lapse and stock units will become fully vested, unless individual agreements state otherwise. The effect of any of the foregoing events on any cash award will be prescribed in the applicable award agreement.
 
Fair Market Value
 
Under the incentive plan, fair market value of a share of any series of common stock on any day means the last sale price (or, if no last sale price is reported, the average of the high bid and low asked prices) for a share of such series of common stock on that day (or, if such day is not a trading day, on the next preceding trading day) as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system for the principal national securities exchange on which shares of such series of common stock are listed on such day, or the compensation committee can, in its sole discretion, use averages or weighted averages either on a daily basis or such longer period as complies with Code Section 409A. If for any day the fair market value of a share of the applicable series of common stock is not determinable by any of the foregoing means, then the fair market value for such day shall be determined in good faith by the compensation committee on the basis of such quotations and other considerations as the compensation committee deems appropriate.
 
Adjustments
 
The number and series of shares of Discovery common stock which may be awarded, optioned or otherwise made subject to awards under the incentive plan, the number and series of shares of common stock covered by outstanding awards and the purchase or exercise price and any relevant appreciation base with respect to any of the foregoing are subject to appropriate adjustment in the compensation committee's discretion, as the compensation committee deems equitable, in the event (1) Discovery subdivides the outstanding shares of any series of its common stock into a greater number of shares of such series of common stock, (2) Discovery combines the outstanding shares of any series of its common stock into a smaller number of shares of such series of common stock or (3) there is a stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, reclassification, recapitalization, reorganization, spin-off, combination, exchange of shares, warrants or rights offering to purchase such series of common stock or any other similar corporate event (excluding approved transactions (as defined in the incentive plan)).
split-up,
 
Amendment and Termination of the incentive plan
 
The compensation committee may terminate the incentive plan at any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the date on which the incentive plan became effective. The compensation committee may also suspend, discontinue, modify or amend the incentive plan any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the date on which the incentive plan became effective. However, before an amendment can be made that would adversely affect a participant who has already been granted an award, the participant's consent must be obtained.

Exhibit 99.3
Discovery Holding Company Announces Completion of Transaction With Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership to Combine Their Respective Stakes in Discovery Communications, LLC and Animal Planet L.P.
ENGLEWOOD, Colo., Sept. 17 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  Discovery Holding Company ("DHC") announced today that after 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on September 17, 2008, DHC successfully completed the previously announced transactions with Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse") that combined their respective stakes in Discovery Communications, LLC ("Discovery") and Animal Planet L.P. ("Animal Planet"). As a result of the closing, Discovery Communications, Inc. ("DCI"), which owns Discovery and Animal Planet, has become a public company, and DCI's Series A, Series B and Series C common stock (Nasdaq:  ,  and  ) will begin trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on September 18, 2008.
DISAD
News
DISBD
News
DISCK
News
As part of the transaction, DHC spun-off to its stockholders (the "Spin-off") Ascent Media Corporation ("AMC") through the distribution of all of the outstanding shares of AMC common stock to DHC stockholders of record on September 17, 2008. In the spin off, each share of DHC Series A and Series B common stock received 0.05 shares of the corresponding series of AMC Series A and Series B common stock. The AMC Series A common stock began trading on a when-issued basis on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "ASCMV" on September 17, 2008. On September 29, 2008 the AMC Series A common stock will begin regular way trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "ASCMA" and the AMC Series B common stock will begin regular way trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "ASCMB".
Following the Spin-off, a subsidiary of DCI merged with DHC, resulting in DCI becoming the new public parent corporation of DHC. In the merger, each outstanding share of DHC Series A common stock was converted into one-half of a share of DCI Series A common stock and one-half of a share of DCI Series C common stock and each outstanding share of DHC Series B common stock was converted into one-half of a share of DCI Series B common stock and one-half of a share of DCI Series C common stock. As part of the same transaction, Advance/Newhouse contributed its interests in Discovery and Animal Planet to DCI in exchange for preferred stock of DCI that, immediately after the closing of the merger, is convertible, after giving effect to the conversion, into shares representing one-third of the outstanding shares of common stock of DCI. The preferred stock held by Advance/Newhouse entitles it to elect three members of DCI's board of directors and to exercise approval rights with respect to the taking of specified actions by DCI and its subsidiaries.
About Discovery Communications, Inc.
Discovery Communications, Inc. (Nasdaq: - , - , - ) is the world's number one nonfiction media company reaching more than 1.5
DISAD
News
DISBD
News
DISCK
News
 
billion cumulative subscribers in over 170 countries. Its businesses and assets include a 100% ownership interest in Discovery Communications, LLC, a global media and entertainment company, and a 100% ownership interest in CSS Studios, LLC, a provider of post-production audio services.
Discovery empowers people to explore their world and satisfy their curiosity through 100-plus worldwide networks, led by Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Planet Green, Investigation Discovery and HD Theater, as well as leading consumer and educational products and services, and a diversified portfolio of digital media services including HowStuffWorks.com. For more information, please visit
http://www.discoverycommunications.com.
About Ascent Media Group:
Ascent Media Group provides creative and network services to the media and entertainment industries in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Ascent Media's clients include major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable programming networks, advertising agencies and other companies that produce, own and/or distribute entertainment, news, sports, corporate, educational, industrial and advertising content. Santa Monica, California-based Ascent Media, through its Creative Services and Network Services divisions, provides creative and technical media services to the media and entertainment industries. Through more than 75 facilities in California, New York, London, Singapore and other locations throughout the world, Ascent Media provides effective solutions for the creation, management and distribution of content to major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable channels, advertising agencies and other companies that produce, own and/or distribute entertainment, news, sports, corporate, educational, industrial and advertising content. More information about Ascent Media is available at
http://www.ascentmedia.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for historical information contained herein, this press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements, including Ascent Media's and Discovery's ability to continue financial and operational growth at historic levels, and DHC's ability to successfully operate and integrate Discovery. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release. DHC expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in DHC's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.


