FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20090804072922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 4, 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. released its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 4, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Second Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009. The discussion below assumes the transaction between Discovery Holding Company ("DHC"), Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH"), and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership that resulted in Discovery becoming a public company, as described in the Other Items section, occurred on January 1, 2008, and as such includes 100% of Discovery's results.
Silver Spring, Maryland  August 4, 2009:
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer, said "Discovery's second quarter results demonstrate our ability to execute on our business plan and strategic initiatives in a difficult operating environment. We delivered 12% ratings growth across our domestic networks and increased international subscribers 11% while offsetting our continued investment in programming with reductions to the selling, general and administrative cost base. The result was demonstrable operating leverage, with Adjusted OIBDA growth of 13% despite the challenging economy and adverse foreign currency fluctuations. At the same time, we took several strategic steps to better position the Company including partnering with Hasbro on a new children's venture and monetizing an underutilized part of our valuable distribution platform. We also considerably strengthened our balance sheet, paying down $772 million in debt and reducing our leverage to 2.5 times, providing us additional financial flexibility. While the operating environment remains uncertain, with a strengthened balance sheet, operational momentum and sustained operating leverage, we expect to continue to deliver on our commitments to shareholders in the second half of 2009."
Second quarter revenues of $881 million were down slightly compared with the second quarter a year ago as 2% growth at U.S. Networks was offset by a 5% decline at International Networks, primarily the result of a $34 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") grew 13% to $381 million, driven by a 11% increase at U.S. Networks partially offset by a 5% decline at International Networks due primarily to a $12 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Total company Adjusted OIBDA margin increased to 43% for the second quarter from 38% for the same period a year ago.
(1)
Second quarter net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $183 million ($0.43 per share) increased $140 million compared to $43 million ($0.16 per share) for the second quarter a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect the $45 million growth in Adjusted OIBDA and a net of tax gain of $46 million as a result of the sale of 50% of the Discovery Kids channel.
Free cash flow was $166 million for the second quarter, an increase of $71 million from the second quarter of 2008. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
(1) See the definition of Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization on page 4.
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Networks
U.S. Networks' revenues in the second quarter of 2009 increased 2% to $557 million primarily driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 5% largely from higher rates, subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier and lower launch-incentives amortization, offset by the absence of $5 million due to the removal of Discovery Kids from the consolidated results following the sale of 50% of the entity on May 22, 2009, and an $8 million one-time revenue item recorded in the second quarter of 2008. Adjusting for these items, distribution revenue grew 10% compared with second quarter a year ago. Advertising revenue increased 1% as a result of higher pricing and increased ratings, partially offset by lower cash sellouts due to softness in the economy.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 11% to $330 million reflecting the 2% revenue growth and a 10% decline in operating expenses as lower marketing, selling and administrative costs were partially offset by a slight increase in programming spending. Operating expenses would have declined 13% excluding $7 million of costs related to OWN incurred in the current quarter.
International Networks
International Networks' revenues for the second quarter decreased 5% to $283 million as a $34 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations resulted in a 13% decline in advertising revenue and slightly lower distribution revenue. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 7% led by 9% affiliate revenue growth, primarily from subscriber increases in Latin America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. Advertising revenue in local currency terms was up 3% led by growth in EMEA and the UK.
Adjusted OIBDA decreased 5% to $92 million as the 5% revenue decline was partially offset by a 6% decline in operating expenses which included a content charge of $11 million in the quarter, primarily at our German operations, and $12 million unfavorable impact related to foreign exchange. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and the content charge, Adjusted OIBDA increased 21% reflecting the 7% revenue growth partially offset by 1% higher operating expenses as increased programming expenses were mostly offset by lower marketing and personnel costs.
Commerce, Education, and Other
Commerce, Education and Other second quarter revenues of $40 million were slightly lower than the second quarter of 2008, as increased education revenues from higher streaming volumes was offset by lower commerce revenues as a result of the transition to a new licensing model. Adjusted OIBDA increased to $5 million as compared with a loss of $3 million a year ago as commerce operating costs declined due to lower personnel costs and the new licensing model.
Corporate
Adjusted OIBDA increased $8 million when compared to the second quarter a year ago due primarily to lower consulting costs.
FULL YEAR 2009 OUTLOOK
For the full year ended December 31, 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc., expects total revenue between $3,375 million and $3,500 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,350 million and $1,400 million, an increase to the bottom end of the range, and net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $500 million to $600 million, increased primarily to reflect the net of tax gain on the Discovery Kids transaction. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses, the removal of Discovery Kids from our consolidated operations and current share price for mark-to-market share-based compensation calculations, while excluding the impact of OWN.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow. The Company evaluates the operating performance of segments based on financial measures such as revenues and Adjusted OIDBA. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expense excluding (i) mark-to-market share-based compensation expense, (ii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iii) restructuring and impairment charges, and (iv) gains (losses) on asset and dispositions. Management uses Adjusted OIBDA to assess the operational strength and performance of its segments and the Company as a whole. Management uses this measure to view operating results, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze operating performance of each segment against historical data. The Company excludes mark-to-market compensation expense and restructuring and impairment charges from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non-recurring nature. The Company also excludes the amortization of deferred launch incentive payments because these payments are infrequent and the amortization does not represent cash payments in the current reporting period.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operations less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders.
Because Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 9 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
OTHER ITEMS
In May 2009, the Company completed the issuance of $500 million of indebtedness pursuant to a supplement to its Term Loan B credit agreement, referred to as Term Loan C. Net proceeds were used to repay outstanding debt.
Also in May 2009, the Company closed its sale of a 50% interest in a joint venture which holds the Discovery Kids channel. Proceeds from the sale were $300 million and as of May 22, 2009 Discovery Kids is no longer consolidated in the Company's financial statements.
In September 2008, Discovery Holding Company, Inc. ("DHC") and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse") closed a transaction that included the combination of DHC's approximate 67% interest in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH") with Advance/Newhouse's approximate 33% interest in DCH. In connection with the transaction, DHC spun-off its interests in Ascent Media Corporation ("AMC") except for certain businesses that provide sound-related services, which remain with Discovery. As a result of the transaction, DHC ceased to be a reporting company and Discovery became the successor reporting entity to DHC. The attached condensed consolidated statements of operations, condensed consolidated balance sheets and condensed consolidated statements of cash flows assume the above transaction occurred as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, the results of AMC, with the exception of the Creative Sound Services business, have been treated as discontinued operations for 2008. AMC's results of operations are not separately presented as discontinued operations in the condensed consolidated statements of operations because its net operating results were not significant for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008. See our Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 4, 2009 for a more detailed description of the transaction and for further explanation of the financial statement presentation.
The 2008 financial information has been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of the 2009 financial information. This recast reflects (i) the gross combined financial information of both DHC and DCH as though the transaction was consummated on January 1, 2008, (ii) adjustments to revenues and expenses to exclude amounts for AMC and (iii) the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 160,
Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement  an Amendment of ARB No. 51.
Conference Call Information
Discovery Communications, Inc. will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss its second quarter 2009 results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Annual Report on
Form 10-K
filed with the SEC on February 25, 2009. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could,", "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2009 outlook. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.


