FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20090309165226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Discovery Communications, Inc. is hereby filing its standard form of stock option agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Form of Stock Option Agreement
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

<>
Participant Full Name
Dear <>
Participant First Name
Congratulations, you have been given a stock option grant in recognition of your contributions to the success of Discovery Communications, Inc. (the "Company"). A stock option grant gives you the right to purchase a specific number of shares of the Company's Series A common stock at a fixed price, assuming that you satisfy conditions of the Plan and the implementing agreement. We would like you to have an opportunity to share in the continued success of the Company through this stock option grant under the Discovery Communications, Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated) (the "Plan"), the Plan under which the Company will now make equity grants after the transactions that closed on September 17, 2008. The Company's general program to offer equity and equity-type awards to eligible employees is referred to as the Performance Equity Program ("PEP"). The following represents a brief description of your grant. You will receive additional details regarding your stock option grant within the next several weeks including a Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") and a copy of the Plan; responses to frequently asked questions are attached. In addition, if you are located in a country other than the United States, you will receive an International Addendum with your first award under the Plan that you must sign and return to the Company. If you are subject to this requirement, the International Addendum is enclosed. These materials will provide important information regarding the mechanics of the stock option grant and instructions for accepting the grant and for designating beneficiaries.
Stock Option Grant Summary:
You can access the DAP portal for updates and information, email
pepquestions@discovery.com
, or call the Compensation Hotline at
240-662-3493
with any questions.
Discovery Communications, Inc. (the "") has granted you an option (the "") under the Discovery Communications, Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated) (the ""), the Plan under which the Company will now make equity grants after the transactions that closed on September 17, 2008. The Company's general program to offer equity and equity-type awards to eligible employees is referred to as the "" (or ""). The Option lets you purchase a specified number (the "") of shares of the Company's Series A common stock, at a specified price per share (the "").
Company
Option
Plan
Performance Equity Program
PEP
Option Shares
Grant Price
The individualized communication you received (the "") provides the details for your Option. It specifies the number of Option Shares, the Grant Price, the Date of Grant, the schedule for exercisability, and the latest date the Option will expire (the "").
Cover Letter
Term Expiration Date
The Option is subject in all respects to the applicable provisions of the Plan. This Grant Agreement does not cover all of the rules that apply to the Option under the Plan; please refer to the Plan document. Capitalized terms are defined either further below in this grant agreement (the "") or in the Plan. If you are located in a country other than the United States, you are also receiving an International Addendum to this Grant Agreement (the ""). You are required to sign a copy of the International Addendum in addition to accepting this Grant Agreement electronically. The International Addendum is incorporated into the Grant Agreement by reference and supplements the terms of this Grant Agreement and future grants to you under the Plan.
Grant Agreement
International Addendum
The Plan document is available on the Fidelity website. The Prospectus for the Plan, the Company's S-4, Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other filings the Company makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available for your review on the Company's web site. You may also obtain paper copies of these documents upon request to the Company's HR department.
Neither the Company nor anyone else is making any representations or promises regarding the duration of your service, exercisability of the Option, the value of the Company's stock or of this Option, or the Company's prospects. The Company is not providing any advice regarding tax consequences to you or regarding your decisions regarding the Option; you agree to rely only upon your own personal advisors.
No one may sell, transfer, or distribute the Option or the securities that may be purchased upon exercising the Option without an effective registration statement relating thereto or an opinion of counsel satisfactory to Discovery Communications, Inc. or other information and representations satisfactory to it that such registration is not required.
In addition to the Plan's terms and restrictions, the following terms and restrictions apply:
The Option will become exercisable on the schedule provided in the Cover Letter to this Grant Agreement, assuming you remain employed (or serve as a member of the Company's board of directors) through each Exercisability Date. Any fractional shares will be carried forward to the following Exercisability Date, unless the Committee selects a different treatment. For purposes of this Grant Agreement, employment with the Company will include employment with any Subsidiary whose employees are then eligible to receive Awards under the Plan (provided that a later transfer of employment to an ineligible Subsidiary will not terminate employment unless the Committee determines otherwise).
Exercisability will accelerate fully on your Retirement, or, while employed, your Disability or death. If the Company terminates your employment without Cause during a calendar year before the Option is fully exercisable, the Option shall remain or become exercisable as though you remained working through any Exercisability Dates occurring during the 90 days after the date of termination. ("" has the meaning provided in Section 11.2(b) of the Plan. "" means your employment ends for any reason other than Cause at a point at which you are at least age 60 and have been employed by the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or Discovery Communications, LLC for at least five years, where your period of service is determined using the Company's Prior Employment Service Policy or a successor policy chosen by the Committee. Acceleration upon Retirement does not apply in countries subject to the EU Directive on Discrimination.)
Cause
Retirement
"" has the meaning provided in your employment agreement with the Company or, if no such agreement is in effect after a Change in Control, any of the following events without your consent and as measured against the status in effect at the Change in Control (unless you have subsequently consented to a different status):  (a) a required relocation of your principal place of employment that results in an increase in commuting distance of at least 50 miles, (b) a job level reduction of at least two levels, or (c) a reduction in base salary, , that you must provide the Company with written notice of the existence of the event constituting Good Reason within 45 days of your knowledge of any such event having occurred and allow the Company 30 days to cure the same.  If the Company so cures the change, you will not have a basis for terminating your employment for Good Reason with respect to such cured change.  If such event is not cured within such 30 day period, you may make your resignation effective at the end of such 30 day period. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, Good Reason provides an acceleration only for resignations during the 12 month period following a Change in Control.
Good Reason
provided however
The Committee reserves its ability under Section 11.1(b) of the Plan to vary this treatment if the Committee determines there is an equitable substitution or replacement award in connection with a Change in Control.
If you die during the 30 or 90 day period after your employment ends (on a termination without Cause or a resignation), the period for exercise will be extended until the first anniversary of the date your employment ended, subject to the Term Expiration Date.
The Committee can override the expiration provisions of this Grant Agreement.
The Committee can approve additional payment methods, including use of a fully or partially recourse promissory note, subject to any prohibitions of applicable law.
its completing or amending any securities registration or qualification of the Option Shares its or your satisfying any exemption from registration under any Federal or state law, rule, or regulation;
or
its receiving proof it considers satisfactory that a person seeking to exercise the Option after your death is entitled to do so;
your complying with any requests for representations under the Plan; and
your complying with any Federal, state, or local tax withholding obligations.
represent to the Company, in a manner satisfactory to the Company's counsel, that you are acquiring the Option Shares for your own account and not with a view to reselling or distributing the Option Shares; and
agree that you will not sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the Option Shares unless:
a registration statement under the Act is effective at the time of disposition with respect to the Option Shares you propose to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of; or
the Company has received an opinion of counsel or other information and representations it considers satisfactory to the effect that, because of Rule 144 under the Act or otherwise, no registration under the Act is required.
Wherever a conflict may arise between the terms of this Grant Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan will control. The Committee may adjust the number of Option Shares and the Grant Price and other terms of the Option from time to time as the Plan provides.
Plan Governs


