FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20090225074547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 25, 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. released its earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1 Press release dated February 25, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Full Year 2008 Financial Highlights:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008. The discussion below assumes the transaction between Discovery Holding Company ("DHC"), Discovery Communications Holding LLC ("DCH"), and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership that resulted in Discovery becoming a public company, as described in the Other Items section on page 5, occurred on January 1, 2007, and as such includes 100% of Discovery Communications' results for both 2008 and 2007. Please see the as adjusted financial statements beginning on page 14 for an explanation of why management believes this presentation is appropriate.
Silver Spring, Maryland  February 25, 2009:
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "This past year was one of significant accomplishment for Discovery, as we delivered strong operating performances across our businesses and successfully transitioned to a fully public company. Strategically, we strengthened the programming and development at our fully distributed channels and finished the year with double-digit ratings growth in the fourth quarter among key demos at Discovery Channel and TLC. We also established new identities for several of our emerging networks and continued our international expansion, increasing our subscriber base overseas by 16%. Most importantly, our strategic initiatives were achieved while strongly growing revenues and Adjusted OIBDA, in what are increasingly challenging times. As we execute our 2009 operating plan in a difficult economic climate, our stable foundation of contracted and growing subscription revenues, diversified international expansion and stringent focus on costs give us confidence that we will outperform the marketplace and continue to grow moving forward."
Fourth Quarter Results
Fourth quarter revenues of $904 million increased $1 million over the as adjusted fourth quarter a year ago as 8% growth at U.S. Networks was mostly offset by a 23% decline in Commerce, Education and Other as well as a 4% decline at International Networks, primarily the result of a $33 million impact from foreign currency fluctuations. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") grew to $362 million, an increase of $222 million versus the fourth quarter a year ago, mainly driven by an increase of $188 million at U.S. Networks and an increase of $26 million, or 32%, at International Networks. The prior year results included a content impairment charge of $139 million, primarily at U.S. Networks. Excluding the impact of the content impairment charge, Adjusted OIBDA increased $64 million or 23% from the prior year. Adjusted OIBDA margin, excluding the impact of the content impairment charge, increased to 38% for the fourth quarter, up from 31% in the same period a
(1)
      
year ago. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expense excluding marked to market share-based compensation expense under our long-term incentive plans, (ii) restructuring and impairment charges, (iii) depreciation and amortization, including amortization of deferred launch incentives, and (iv) gains on asset and business dispositions.
Fourth quarter net income from continuing operations of $105 million ($0.25 per share) grew $113 million versus the as adjusted loss from continuing operations of $8 million ($0.03 per share) a year ago.
(1)
Free cash flow was $128 million for the fourth quarter, an increase of $24 million from the as adjusted results in the same period for 2007. Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
(1)
Full Year Results
Full year 2008 revenues of $3,443 million increased 10% or $302 million over the as adjusted revenues for 2007, primarily driven by 10% growth at U.S. Networks and 12% growth at International Networks. Adjusted OIBDA increased 49% to $1,310 million led by 37% growth at U.S. Networks and 52% growth at International Networks. The prior year results included a content impairment charge of $139 million, primarily at U.S. Networks. Excluding the impact of the content impairment charge, Adjusted OIBDA increased $216 million or 21% from the prior year and Adjusted OIBDA margin grew to 38% in 2008 from 28% in 2007.
(1)
Full year net income from continuing operations of $274 million ($0.85 per share) grew $123 million versus the as adjusted results of $151 million ($0.54 per share) a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect the higher Adjusted OIBDA as well as a $69 million benefit in the current year related to the unrealized change in the fair value of the marked to market share-based compensation, which was an expense of $141 million in the prior year.
(1)
Free cash flow was $467 million for 2008, an increase of $295 million from as adjusted results in 2007.
(1)
SEGMENT RESULTS
      
U.S. Networks
Fourth Quarter Results
U.S. Networks' revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased 8% to $536 million primarily driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 13% largely from higher rates across the fully distributed networks, subscriber growth at the emerging networks and lower launch-support amortization. Advertising revenue increased 6% from higher pricing as well as increased ratings at Discovery Channel and TLC, which satisfied prior period ratings shortfalls.
Adjusted OIBDA increased $188 million to $300 million reflecting the 8% revenue growth and lower operating expenses, primarily due to the impairment charge of $129 million taken in the fourth quarter a year ago, which also resulted in a $19 million decline in content amortization expense in the current quarter as compared to prior year. Excluding the impact of the impairment charge taken a year ago, programming expense increased $16 million and Adjusted OIBDA grew $40 million or 17%.
Full Year Results
U.S. Networks' revenue for the full year 2008 increased 10% to $2,062 million mainly driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 10% largely from higher rates across the fully distributed networks, subscriber growth at the emerging networks and lower launch-support amortization. 2008 distribution revenues also include $8 million of one-time revenue related to accruals in prior periods for certain distributors. Advertising revenue increased 9% as compared with 2007 as a result of higher pricing and sellouts, partially offset by lower ratings at TLC and Discovery Channel. Additionally, other revenue grew 20% reflecting Discovery's sales representation of Travel Channel and an increase in digital revenue, primarily from the inclusion of HowStuffWorks, which was acquired in December 2007.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 37% to $1,111 million reflecting the 10% revenue growth and 12% lower operating expenses, primarily due to the content impairment charge of $129 million taken in the fourth quarter of 2007, which also resulted in a $76 million decline in content amortization expense in the current year as compared to prior year. Excluding the impact of the impairment charge taken a year ago, programming expense increased $49 million and Adjusted OIBDA grew $96 million or 10%. Full year results also include a content impairment charge of $17 million related to the management team reorganization at TLC during the third quarter of 2008.
International Networks
Fourth Quarter Results
International Networks' revenue for the fourth quarter decreased 4% to $294 million as the $33 million impact of foreign currency fluctuations resulted in a 2% decline in distribution revenue and a 12% decline in advertising revenue. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 6% led by 8% affiliate revenue growth, primarily from subscriber increases in EMEA (Europe (excluding U.K.), Middle East and Africa) and Latin America. Advertising revenue in local currency terms was flat as strong growth in EMEA and Latin America was offset by lower advertising revenue in the U.K. due to lower rates as well as the interpretation of a contract provision resulting in a limitation in our ability to monetize our audience. Excluding the U.K., advertising revenue in local currency terms increased 14% over the fourth quarter a year ago at International Networks.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 32% to $107 million as the 4% revenue decline was more than offset by an 18% decline in operating expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Adjusted OIBDA increased 36% reflecting 6% revenue growth and a 4% decline in operating expenses as increased programming expenses were more than offset by lower marketing and research costs.
Full Year Results
International Networks' revenue for the full year 2008 increased 12% to $1,158 million led by 16% distribution revenue growth primarily from subscriber increases in EMEA (Europe (excluding U.K.), Middle East and Africa) and Latin America. Advertising revenue increased 2% as strong growth in EMEA and Latin America was offset by lower advertising revenue in the U.K. due to lower rates as well as an interpretation of a contract provision. Excluding the U.K., advertising revenue in local currency terms increased 22% over 2008 at International Networks. The full year also included 28% growth in other revenue driven by the sale of Discovery Networks programs in the U.K. and Canada.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 52% to $387 million reflecting the 12% revenue growth and a 1% decline in operating expenses as lower marketing and research costs were mostly offset by increased programming and personnel costs. Excluding foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 12% and Adjusted OIBDA increased 45% versus 2007. The full year impact of foreign currency increased revenues by $7 million and Adjusted OIBDA by $17 million.
Commerce, Education, and Other
Fourth Quarter Results
Commerce, Education and Other fourth quarter revenue decreased 23% to $70 million primarily reflecting lower commerce revenues as compared to the same period a year ago, which included stronger DVD sales of . Adjusted OIBDA increased to $11 million as compared with the break even results in the fourth quarter a year ago as the revenue decline at commerce was mostly offset by lower operating costs as compared to prior year. Additionally, prior year results included an impairment charge of $10 million at education. The current quarter results also include revenues of $20 million and Adjusted OIBDA of $1 million for Creative Sound Services which was flat with the results a year ago.
Planet Earth
Full Year Results
Commerce, Education and Other full year 2008 revenue decreased 13% to $196 million primarily reflecting lower commerce revenues as compared to the same period a year ago, which included stronger DVD sales of , partially offset by higher education revenues from the streaming of new products as well as assessment, sponsorship and licensing deals. Adjusted OIBDA increased $9 million to $13 million as the revenue decline was offset by lower operating costs, primarily at education, due to an impairment charge of $10 million in the prior year. The current year results include revenues of $75 million and Adjusted OIBDA of $4 million for Creative Sound Services, which was flat with the results a year ago.
Planet Earth
Corporate
For the full year 2008 Adjusted OIBDA decreased $12 million as a result of an increase in Corporate expenses, primarily due to costs associated with the transaction described in Other Items as well as costs related to the OWN joint venture.
OTHER ITEMS
In September 2008, Discovery Holding Company, Inc. ("DHC") and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership ("Advance/Newhouse") closed a transaction that included the combination of DHC's approximate 67% interest in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH") with Advance/Newhouse's approximate 33% interest in DCH. In connection with the transaction, DHC spun-off its interests in Ascent Media Corporation except for certain businesses that provide sound-related services, which remain with Discovery. As a result of the transaction, DHC ceased to be a reporting company and Discovery became the successor reporting entity to DHC. The attached consolidated statements of operations, consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows assume the above transaction occurred as of January 1, 2008, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The prior year results included in the attached financial statements reflect the previously reported results of DHC, which accounted for its interest in DCH in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Additionally, the results of Ascent Media Corporation with the exception of the Creative Sound Services business have been treated as discontinued operations for 2008 and 2007. See our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2009 for a more detailed description of the transaction and for further explanation of the financial statement presentation. See the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 14 for a reconciliation of DHC's previously reported results to as adjusted financial statements for 2007.
FULL YEAR 2009 OUTLOOK
For the full year ended December 31, 2009, Discovery Communications expects total revenue between $3,375 million and $3,500 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,300 million and $1,400 million and net income from continuing operations of $475 million to $575 million. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and current share price for marked to market equity based compensation calculations while excluding the impact of OWN. It is expected that $70 to $80 million will be invested in OWN in 2009 but the income statement impact will depend on the timing of the launch.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with GAAP provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow.  The Company defines Adjusted OIBDA as revenue less (i) cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expense excluding marked to market share-based compensation expense under our long-term incentive plans, (ii) restructuring and impairment charges, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, and (iv) gain on asset and business dispositions. The Company excludes share-based compensation under long-term incentive plans due to its significant volatility from being marked-to-market. The Company excludes the amortization of deferred launch incentive payments because these payments are infrequent and the amortization does not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. In addition to these items, Adjusted OIBDA also excludes depreciation and amortization, restructuring and impairment charges that are included in the measurement of operating income pursuant to GAAP. Management uses Adjusted OIBDA to assess the operational strength and performance of its operating segments, as well as the Company as a whole, and to view operating results, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each operating segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is an important measure to investors because it allows them to analyze operating performance of each business and the Company overall using the same metric management uses and provides investors a measure to analyze operating performance of each business division and the Company overall against historical data.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operations less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders.
Since Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 11 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
2007 Results
See page 14 for an explanation of how as adjusted results for 2007 have been calculated and why management believes this presentation would be meaningful to investors.
Travel Channel
The Company presents 2007 results without the Travel Channel, which was exchanged on May 14, 2007. See our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2009 for a more detailed description of this transaction. Management believes this presentation is useful to investors because it allows them to analyze operating performance of the U.S. Networks and total company against comparable historical data. See page 11 for reconciliation to results including Travel Channel.
Conference Call Information
Discovery Communications will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EST to discuss its full year and fourth quarter 2008 results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Annual Report on
Form 10-K
filed with the SEC on February 25, 2009. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could,", "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2009 outlook. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The following as adjusted financial statements assume the transactions between DHC, DCH and Advance/Newhouse were completed as of January 1, 2007. The as adjusted results do not purport to be indicative of the results that would have been obtained if these events had been completed by January 1, 2007. See our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2009 for a more detailed description of the transaction and for further explanation of the financial statement presentation.
The as adjusted financial statements for 2007 have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that this presentation is meaningful to investors, because it presents the results of Discovery, the reporting successor to DHC. Discovery will be the reporting entity going forward and a comparison of DHC's results for 2007 to Discovery's results for 2008 would not provide investors with meaningful information regarding changes in financial performance of Discovery from 2007 to 2008.
The information in the DHC historical and DCH historical columns in the following as adjusted financial statements is derived from the historical financial statements of DHC and Discovery Communications, Holding, LLC, respectively. Certain reclassifications, with no impact to operating income, have been made to the 2007 financial information to conform to the 2008 presentation.
DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS, INC.


