FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20101213071602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 10, 2010, Discovery Communications, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a stock purchase agreement with Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership to purchase a total of 13,732,491 shares of the Company's Series C preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $500,000,000. The repurchase is expected to close on December 13, 2010.
The Stock Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Company's press release dated December 13, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Both exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
10.1   Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December 10, 2010, between Discovery Communications, Inc. and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership.
99.1   Press release dated December 13, 2010
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

This Stock Purchase Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of December 10, 2010, by and between DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Buyer"), and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (the "Seller").
WHEREAS, Seller owns 71,107,312 shares of Series C preferred stock, par value $.01 per share of the Buyer (the "Series C Preferred Stock"), and Seller desires to sell and transfer to Buyer, and Buyer desires to purchase from Seller 13,732,491 shares of Series C Preferred Stock on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the representations, warranties, promises and agreements hereinafter contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1.
SALE AND TRANSFER OF SHARES; CLOSING
1.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at the Closing, Seller will sell and transfer to Buyer, and Buyer will purchase from Seller, the Shares.
Shares
1.2 . The purchase price (the "Purchase Price") for the Shares will be $499,999,997.31.
Purchase Price
1.3 . The purchase and sale of the Shares provided for in this Agreement (the "Closing") shall occur on December 13, 2010 or such other date as the Buyer and Seller may mutually agree.
Closing
1.4 . At the Closing:
Closing Obligations
(a) Seller will deliver (or cause to be delivered) to Buyer the certificate representing the Shares, duly endorsed by Seller, as applicable (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers).
(b) Buyer will deliver (or cause to be delivered) to Seller the Purchase Price in immediately available funds by wire transfer to an account specified by the Seller and will issue to Seller a new certificate evidencing the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be retained by Seller.
2.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BUYER
Buyer represents and warrants to Seller as follows:
2.1 .
Authority, No Conflict
(a) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Buyer and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Buyer, enforceable against Buyer in accordance with its terms. Buyer has the full right, power, authority, and capacity to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the consummation and performance of the transaction contemplated hereby, by Buyer will not directly or indirectly (with or without notice or lapse of time), (A) conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default under, any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, license, lease or other agreement or instrument to which Buyer is a party or by which Buyer may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of Buyer is subject, or (B) result in any violation by Buyer of the provisions of the (1) charter or by-laws or other organizational instrument of Buyer, or (2) any applicable treaty, law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over Buyer or any of its properties.
2.2 . Based on the Seller's representation in Section 3.3, the terms of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement were approved prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Buyer's board of directors in accordance with Rule 16b-3(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), for the purpose of exempting such transaction from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Exemption from Liability Under Section 16(b)
3.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER
Seller represents and warrants to Buyer as follows:
3.1 .
Authority, No Conflict
(a) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Seller and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms. Seller has the full right, power, authority, and capacity to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the consummation and performance of the transaction contemplated hereby, by Seller will not directly or indirectly (with or without notice or lapse of time), (A) conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any tax, lien, charge or encumbrance upon the Shares pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, license, lease or other agreement or instrument to which Seller is a party or by which Seller may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of Seller is subject, or (B) result in any violation by Seller of the provisions of the (1) charter or by-laws or other organizational instrument of Seller, or (2) any applicable treaty, law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over Seller or any of its properties.
3.2 . Seller is the record and beneficial owner and holder of the Shares, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
Title
3.3 . Seller is a director of the Buyer by deputization because of its relationship with Robert Miron, Steven Miron and Lawrence Kramer, the preferred stock directors of the Buyer.
Exemption from Liability Under Section 16(b)
4.
MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 . The representations, warranties and agreements made herein shall survive the Closing.
Survival
4.2 . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
4.3 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party (including via facsimile or other electronic transmission), it being understood that each party need not sign the same counterpart.
Counterparts
4.4 . This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law that would result in the application of the laws of a different jurisdiction.
Governing Law
4.5 . Each party to this Agreement will bear its own expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Expenses
4.6 . Each party shall, upon request, furnish to the other party other such further information, shall execute and deliver other such documents, and shall do such other acts and things, as the other party may reasonably request for the purposes of consummating the transactions contemplated hereby.
Further Assurances
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date first written above.
BUYER:
DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
By:
/s/Brad Singer
Name: Brad Singer
Title: Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
SELLER:
ADVANCE/NEWHOUSE PROGRAMMING PARTNERSHIP
By:
/s/ Donald Newhouse
Name: Donald Newhouse
Title: President
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Silver Spring, Maryland  December 13, 2010:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today announced that it has agreed to repurchase 13,732,491 shares of Series C preferred stock for approximately $500 million, or $36.41 per share, from Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership. This transaction is outside the Company's existing $1 billion stock repurchase program and represents less than 10% of the Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership holdings in Discovery. Following the transaction, which is expected to close on December 13, 2010, Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership will remain the largest shareholder in the Company with approximately 31 percent of the Company's outstanding stock.
"This transaction, in conjunction with the $1 billion common stock repurchase program that was announced in the second quarter, reflects the Company's commitment to effectively using our capital and our confidence in the long-term growth prospects for Discovery Communications," said David Zaslav, President and Chief Executive Officer of Discovery.
"Our investment in Discovery remains one of the finest moments in the history of our company and we expect it will only become more successful as Discovery continues to grow and flourish," said Donald E. Newhouse, President of Advance Publications, Inc. "We have no plan to further reduce our ownership. Our goal is to take a small percentage of our investment in Discovery and diversify into new acquisitions and investments that will hopefully turn out to be as meaningful."
Discovery Communications (Nasdaq: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) is the world's number one nonfiction media company reaching more than 1.5 billion cumulative subscribers in over 180 countries. Discovery empowers people to explore their world and satisfy their curiosity through 100-plus worldwide networks, led by Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Investigation Discovery, Planet Green and HD Theater, as well as leading consumer and educational products and services, and a diversified portfolio of digital media services including HowStuffWorks.com. For more information, please visit www.discoverycommunications.com.
Advance Publications, Inc. is a diversified media company with leading positions in national and international magazines through Cond Nast and Parade Publications, daily and weekly newspapers, business journals through American City Business Journals, internet sites, cable television systems through Bright House Networks, and a significant interest in Discovery Communications.


