FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20100430071438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 30, 2010, Discovery Communications, Inc. released its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1   Press release dated April 30, 2010
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Silver Spring, Maryland  April 30, 2010:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010.
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Discovery's first quarter performance was the result of strong operational execution and an improving economic environment. The ratings strength exhibited across our diverse portfolio throughout last year was sustained in the first quarter and, with an improved global advertising environment, we were able to further monetize our increased viewership. We remain committed to executing on our operating plan and delivering on our financial commitments while investing in our brands around the globe and strengthening the content across our distribution platforms."
First quarter revenues of $879 million increased $64 million, or 8%, over the first quarter a year ago led by 16% growth at International Networks and 5% growth at U.S. Networks. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization
(1)
("OIBDA") grew 10% to $367 million, driven by a 29% increase at International Networks and a 4% increase at U.S. Networks despite increased content write-offs of $13 million. Total company Adjusted OIBDA margin increased to 42% for the first quarter from 41% for the same period a year ago.
First quarter net income attributable to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $169 million ($0.39 per diluted share) increased $50 million compared to $119 million ($0.28 per diluted share) for the first quarter a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect strong operating performance and a lower provision for income taxes due to a reversal of a foreign tax liability.
Free cash flow was $114 million for the first quarter, a decrease of $18 million from the first quarter of 2009, primarily reflecting increased spending for stock-based compensation and negative working capital, offset by increased operating performance.
Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
(1) See the definition of Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization on page 4.
1
U.S. Networks' revenues in the first quarter of 2010 increased 5% to $546 million as advertising and distribution revenue growth more than offset lower commerce revenues, as a result of the transition to a new business model. Advertising revenue increased 9% primarily driven by higher cash sellouts and increased ratings. Distribution revenue grew 4% largely from higher rates, subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier and lower launch-support amortization, partially offset by the absence of $12 million due to the removal of Discovery Kids following the sale of 50% of that entity on May 22, 2009. Excluding Discovery Kids and the lower launch-support amortization from the 2009 results, distribution revenues grew 8% compared with the first quarter a year ago.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 4% to $293 million reflecting the 5% revenue growth partially offset by 3% higher operating expenses primarily due to increased content write-offs of $13 million in the current quarter. Excluding content impairment charges and the impact of Discovery Kids, operating expenses were in-line with first quarter a year ago.
2
International Networks' revenues for the first quarter increased 16% to $293 million primarily led by advertising revenue growth of 44% and distribution revenue growth of 7%. Excluding the $13 million impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 10% led by 35% advertising revenue growth, primarily from higher cash sellouts, increased viewership and subscriber growth across all international regions. Affiliate revenue in local currency terms was up 2% during the first quarter mainly from increased subscribers in Latin America and EMEA, partially offset by changes in channel mix at EMEA.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 29% to $124 million as the 16% revenue growth more than offset an 8% increase in operating expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Adjusted OIBDA increased 15% reflecting the 10% revenue growth, partially offset by a 6% increase in operating expenses primarily due to higher personnel costs, as well as a $4 million one-time charge in cost of revenues related to the acquisition of a production facility in the U.K.
Education and Other first quarter revenues increased 3% to $37 million, primarily reflecting increased education revenues from higher streaming volumes. Adjusted OIBDA was in-line with in the first quarter of 2009 as the revenue growth was offset by higher production costs.
Adjusted OIBDA decreased $7 million when compared to the first quarter a year ago primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense.
3
Discovery Communications, Inc. has raised its outlook for the full year ending December 31, 2010. The Company expects total revenue between $3,675 million and $3,775 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,600 million and $1,675 million, and net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $700 million to $750 million. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and current share price for mark-to-market stock-based compensation calculations.
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow. The Company evaluates the operating performance of its segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA"). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark-to-market stock-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. The Company uses this measure to assess operating results and performance of its segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. The Company excludes mark-to-market stock-based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, certain impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non-recurring nature. The Company also excludes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentive as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to stockholders.
Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, and should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 9 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
The 2009 financial information has been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of the 2010 financial information. This recast reflects the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,
Consolidation (ASC 810)
, which amends the existing standards for variable interest entities, as well as the realignment of the Commerce business into the U.S. Networks' segment. See recast results on page 12 for additional details.
Discovery Communications, Inc. will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss its first quarter 2010 results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com or dial 1-800-901-5217 inside the U.S. and 1-617-786-2964 outside of the U.S., using the following passcode: 64981523.
4
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22, 2010. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2010 outlook. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
5
6
7
8
9
10
2009 results have been recast to reflect the deconsolidation of OWN and Animal Planet Japan due to the adoption of new accounting standards regarding variable interest entities, as well as the realignment of the Commerce business into the U.S Networks segment. The tables below reflect this recast of prior year results.
12


