FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20100210072131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 10, 2010, Discovery Communications, Inc. released its earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1   Press release dated February 10, 2010
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Silver Spring, Maryland  February 10, 2010:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. The discussion below assumes the transaction between Discovery Holding Company ("DHC"), Discovery Communications Holding, LLC ("DCH"), and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership that resulted in Discovery becoming a public company occurred on January 1, 2008 and as such includes 100% of Discovery's results.
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The strength of Discovery's performance throughout 2009 reflected the quality of our distribution platform and content assets and our focus on delivering real operating leverage. The affiliate fees we generate across the globe provided consistent resiliency throughout this past year, while the ratings growth across our networks and the value of our unique content enabled advertising to grow despite the weak environment. Our revenue growth, combined with thoughtful cost management, increased our operating efficiency, translating into double-digit Adjusted OIBDA
(1)
and free cash flow growth. As we look to 2010, we remain focused on further monetizing our ratings momentum in an improving advertising environment, continuing to strengthen our distribution platforms and relationships and, most importantly, delivering high quality content to our viewers."
Fourth quarter revenues of $964 million increased $60 million, or 7%, over the fourth quarter a year ago as 22% growth at International Networks and 3% growth at U.S. Networks was partially offset by a $21 million or 30% decline at Commerce, Education and Other as a result of the transition to a new commerce licensing model. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization
(1)
("OIBDA") grew to $390 million, an increase of $28 million or 8% versus the fourth quarter a year ago, mainly driven by a 42% increase at International Networks partially offset by a 4% decline at U.S. Networks due to content impairment charges of $22 million. Adjusted OIBDA margin of 40% for the fourth quarter was in-line with the same period a year ago.
Fourth quarter net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc., stockholders of $155 million ($0.36 per diluted share) grew $49 million compared to $106 million ($0.25 per diluted share) for the fourth quarter a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect the growth in Adjusted OIBDA, lower restructuring and impairment charges and an increase in Other non-operating income, partially offset by a
(1) See the definition of Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization on page 5.
1
$28 million expense in the current quarter from the change in the fair value of the mark-to-market share-based compensation, compared with a benefit of $22 million in the fourth quarter a year ago.
Free cash flow was $236 million for the fourth quarter, an increase of $108 million or 84% from the same period for 2008. Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
Full year 2009 revenues of $3,516 million increased $73 million, or 2%, over 2008 revenues, primarily driven by 4% growth at U.S. Networks and 3% growth at International Networks. Adjusted OIBDA increased 12% to $1,464 million led by 8% growth at U.S. Networks and 16% growth at International Networks. Adjusted OIBDA margin for the full year increased to 42% from 38% in 2008.
Full year net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders from continuing operations of $552 million ($1.30 per diluted share) grew $278 million versus $274 million ($0.85 per diluted share) a year ago. The increased results primarily reflect the higher Adjusted OIBDA, a net of tax gain on the sale of Discovery Kids channel and an increase in Other non-operating income, partially offset by a $205 million expense in the current year related to the change in the fair value of the mark-to-market share-based compensation, which was a benefit of $69 million in the prior year. 2008 net income also included $128 million of minority interest primarily associated with the Advanced Newhouse ownership prior to the transaction that resulted in Discovery Communications, Inc. becoming a public company.
Free cash flow was $551 million for the full year, an increase of $84 million or 18% from 2008. Free cash flow includes $108 million in taxes paid related to the sale of 50% of the Discovery Kids channel and $64 million of additional tax payments related to prior periods. Excluding these taxes, free cash flow for 2009 increased $256 million or 55% compared to the same period in 2008.
2
U.S. Networks' revenue in the fourth quarter of 2009 increased 3% to $554 million. Distribution revenue grew 4% largely from higher rates and subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier, partially offset by the absence of $10 million due to the removal of Discovery Kids following the sale of 50% of that entity on May 22, 2009. Excluding Discovery Kids from 2008 results, distribution revenue in the current quarter grew 8% compared with the fourth quarter a year ago. Advertising revenue increased 2% from higher cash sellouts as well as increased ratings.
Adjusted OIBDA decreased $11 million to $289 million reflecting the 3% revenue growth offset by 11% higher operating expenses primarily due to content impairment charges of $22 million in the current quarter. Operating expenses would have increased 2% excluding content impairment charges.
U.S. Networks' revenue for the full year 2009 increased 4% to $2,142 million mainly driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 6% largely from higher rates, subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier and lower launch-support amortization, partially offset by the absence of $20 million due to the removal of Discovery Kids from the consolidated results as well an $8 million one-time revenue item recorded in the second quarter of 2008. Adjusting for these items, distribution revenue grew 9% compared with 2008. Advertising revenue increased 2% as a result of higher ratings and increased pricing, partially offset by lower cash sellouts due to softness in the economy.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 8% to $1,196 million reflecting the 4% revenue growth and a 2% decline in operating expenses as lower selling and administrative costs were partially offset by increased programming costs, which included higher content impairment charges in 2009. Excluding content impairment charges in 2008 and 2009, as well as $20 million of increased costs during 2009 related to OWN, operating expenses would have decreased 5% as compared with 2008.
3
International Networks' revenue for the fourth quarter increased 22% to $358 million as $19 million of favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations contributed to advertising revenue growth of 33% and distribution revenue growth of 16%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 16% led by 24% advertising revenue growth primarily in the U.K., EMEA (Europe (excluding U.K.) Middle East and Africa) and Latin America from higher viewership and an increased subscriber base. Advertising revenue in the current quarter also included a $6 million benefit due to a settlement from a prior contract dispute at our U.K. operations. Affiliate revenue in local currency terms was up 10% during the fourth quarter mainly from subscriber growth in Latin America. The increase in Other revenue primarily reflects $6 million from programming sales.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 42% to $152 million as the 22% revenue increase more than offset a 10% increase in operating expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Adjusted OIBDA increased 44% reflecting 16% revenue growth, partially offset by a 1% rise in operating expenses as increased programming expenses were slightly offset by lower marketing and personnel costs.
International Networks' revenue for the full year 2009 increased 3% to $1,189 million, despite a $69 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations, as distribution and advertising revenue each grew 3%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues for the full year 2009 increased 10%, driven by 9% distribution revenue growth, primarily due to increased subscribers in Latin America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. Advertising revenue in local currency terms increased 12%, primarily in the U.K., EMEA and Latin America from higher viewership due to ratings growth and an increased subscriber base, as well as from the $6 million benefit in the U.K from the settlement of a contract provision.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 16% to $450 million, despite a $20 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations, reflecting the 3% revenue growth as well as a 5% decline in operating expenses. Excluding foreign currency fluctuations, Adjusted OIBDA increased 24% versus 2008 as the 10% revenue growth was partially offset by increased operating expenses of 2% as lower marketing and personnel costs were more than offset by increased programming expenses which included a content charge taken in the second quarter related to our Germany operations. Excluding this charge, operating expenses in 2009 increased only 1% in local currency terms compared with 2008.
4
Commerce, Education and Other fourth quarter revenue decreased 30% to $49 million primarily from $23 million of lower commerce revenues as a result of the transition to a new licensing model, partially offset by increased educational revenues from higher streaming volumes. Adjusted OIBDA decreased to $9 million as the revenue decline at commerce was mostly offset by lower operating costs as compared to prior year.
Commerce, Education and Other full year 2009 revenue decreased 10% to $176 million primarily from $25 million of lower commerce revenues as a result of the transition to the new licensing model, and a decline in sound services, partially offset by $8 million of increased educational revenues from higher streaming volumes. Adjusted OIBDA increased $9 million to $22 million, primarily from an $8 million increase from Education and a $5 million increase from Commerce compared to the prior year.
For the full year 2009 Adjusted OIBDA decreased $3 million due to lower revenue from a joint venture, whose primary sales were of the
Planet Earth
DVD, as well as a decline in personnel and consulting costs.
For the full year ending December 31, 2010, Discovery Communications, Inc., expects total revenue between $3,625 million and $3,750 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,560 million and $1,640 million, and net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $660 million to $725 million. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and current share price for mark-to-market share-based compensation calculations.
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow. The Company evaluates the operating performance of its segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA"). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark-to-market share-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) impairment charges, and (vi) gains
(losses) on business and asset dispositions. The Company uses this measure to assess operating results and performance of its segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. The Company excludes mark-to-market share-based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non-recurring nature. The Company also excludes the amortization of deferred launch incentive payments because these payments are infrequent and the amortization does not represent cash payments in the current reporting period.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operations less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to shareholders.
Because Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, they should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 10 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
The 2008 financial information has been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of the 2009 financial information. This recast reflects the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,
Consolidation (ASC 810)
.
Discovery Communications will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EST to discuss its full year and fourth quarter 2009 results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2010 outlook. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
IMPACT ON SELECT FINANCIAL ITEMS OF ADOPTING AMENDED STANDARDS IN ASC 810
14


