FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20110804072636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On August 4, 2011, Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery") released its earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
Discovery's Board of Directors has approved a $1.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program. Under the program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases at prevailing prices or privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, and subject to market conditions and other factors.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press Release dated August 4, 2011
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2011 RESULTS AND ANNOUNCES $1 BILLION INCREASE TO SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
Silver Spring, Maryland  August 4, 2011:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Discovery continues to deliver strong financial results, particularly across our unique international platform, as the depth and breadth of our content assets have enabled the company to capitalize on the sustained ad market strength worldwide as well as take advantage of the evolution of pay-tv across the globe. Our growth this past quarter was achieved despite continued strategic investments to further our competitive advantage both domestically and internationally. Bolstering our flagship networks, building additional growth assets across the company and leveraging the unparalleled distribution platform we built over the last 25 years remain our top priorities, and we are focused on doing so while delivering sustained financial results and returning additional capital to our shareholders."
Second quarter revenues of $1,067 million increased $104 million, or 11%, over the second quarter a year ago, led by 20% growth at International Networks and 6% growth at U.S. Networks. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization
(1)
("OIBDA") grew 12% to $510 million, driven by a 31% increase at International Networks and a 4% increase at U.S. Networks. Adjusted OIBDA margin for the second quarter increased to 48% from 47% in the second quarter of 2010.
Second quarter net income from continuing operations available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $254 million ($0.62 per diluted share) increased $148 million compared to $106 million ($0.25 per diluted share) for the second quarter a year ago. The current quarter results reflect the strong operating performance, while the prior year's quarter includes losses from the early extinguishment of debt and termination of interest rate swaps. Excluding these items, net income for the quarter increased $43 million
(2)
.
Free cash flow was $198 million for the second quarter, an increase of $242 million from the second quarter of 2010, due to increased operating performance and lower tax and stock compensation payments as well as $138 million of payments in the prior year for the early extinguishment of debt and termination of interest rate swaps. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
U.S. Networks' revenues in the second quarter of 2011 increased 6% to $660 million primarily driven by advertising and distribution revenue growth. Advertising revenue increased 10% due to increased pricing and higher sellouts, as well as $8 million from non-recurring revenue items, partially offset by the absence of $17 million due to the removal of Discovery Health following its contribution into the OWN joint venture on January 1, 2011. Distribution revenue grew 4% largely from higher rates and subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier, partially offset by $3 million due to the absence of Discovery Health. Excluding Discovery Health from the 2010 results and non-recurring revenue items, advertising revenues grew 13% and distribution revenues grew 6% compared with the second quarter a year ago.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 4% to $395 million primarily reflecting the 6% revenue growth. Excluding Discovery Health from the 2010 results, Adjusted OIBDA increased 7%. Operating expenses for the quarter increased 10% primarily due to higher content amortization.
2
International Networks' revenues for the second quarter increased 20% to $368 million primarily led by distribution revenue growth of 18% and advertising revenue growth of 25%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, revenues increased 14% led by 12% distribution revenue growth, mainly from increased subscribers globally and higher rates and subscribers in Latin America. Advertising revenue in local currency terms was up 17% during the second quarter primarily from higher pricing and sellouts across all regions.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 31% to $173 million reflecting the 20% revenue growth partially offset by a 13% increase in operating expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Adjusted OIBDA increased 17% as the 14% revenue growth was partially offset by a 12% increase in operating expenses primarily due to higher content amortization and sales commissions as well as increased personnel costs.
Education and Other second quarter revenues increased 18% to $39 million, mainly reflecting increased Education revenue from higher streaming volumes. Adjusted OIBDA increased $4 million compared to the second quarter of 2010 primarily from a revenue increase at Education.
Adjusted OIBDA decreased $6 million when compared to the second quarter a year ago primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense.
3
During the quarter, the Company, pursuant to its existing stock repurchase program repurchased 5.64 million shares of its Series C common stock at an average price of $37.27 per share for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $210 million.
From July 1, 2011 through August 3, 2011, the Company repurchased 3.45 million shares of its Series C common stock for approximately $127 million.
The Company has repurchased 16.81 million shares of Series C common stock under its $1.0 billion stock repurchase plan to date at an aggregate price of approximately $609 million. Additionally, the Company's Board of Directors has approved a $1.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program. Under the stock repurchase program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases at prevailing prices or privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors.
In June 2011, the Company completed the issuance of $650 million 4.375% Senior Notes due June 2021. The Company intends to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes.
For the full year ending December 31, 2011, Discovery Communications, Inc. expects total revenue between $4,075 million and $4,175 million, Adjusted OIBDA between $1,875 million and $1,950 million, and net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $1,000 million to $1,075 million. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and the current share price for mark-to-market stock-based compensation calculations.
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow. The Company evaluates the operating performance of its segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA"). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark-to-market stock-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions. The Company uses this measure to assess operating results and performance of its segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses and also provides investors a measure to analyze the operating performance of each segment against historical data. The Company excludes mark-to-market stock-based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, certain impairment charges, and gains (losses) on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility or non-recurring nature. The Company also excludes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentive as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for
4
management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to stockholders.
Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, and should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flows provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 9 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Discovery Communications, Inc. will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss its second quarter results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com or dial 1-888-873-4896 inside the U.S. and 1-617-213-8850 outside of the U.S., using the following passcode: 56019852.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 18, 2011. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2011 outlook and plans for stock repurchases. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
5
10
11
12


