FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20111221160959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On December 15, 2011, Discovery Communications, Inc. ("we", "us", "our" or the "Company") entered into an addendum (the "Addendum") modifying our employment agreement with David Zaslav, our president and chief executive officer.
Pursuant to the Addendum, effective December 31, 2011, Mr. Zaslav will no longer receive the awards under the Discovery Appreciation Plan (the "DAP") which, under his employment agreement, he had been entitled to receive annually in a one-for-one replenishment of DAP units that had vested. Instead, Mr. Zaslav will receive grants of cash-settled stock appreciation awards ("CS-SARs") under the Discovery Communications Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan") on terms similar to those of the DAP awards. These terms include a four-year vesting schedule; a base price based on the average closing stock price of our Series A common stock over the 10 trading days before and including the grant date and the 10 trading days after the grant date; and a payout upon maturity determined using a similar average of the closing stock prices around the applicable vesting date. CS-SAR awards will be made upon vesting of Mr. Zaslav's remaining outstanding DAP units and upon vesting of CS-SARs granted pursuant to the Addendum, but only for annual vesting dates that occur between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2014, unless Mr. Zaslav's term of employment is extended beyond February 1, 2015.
CS-SAR awards are subject to the same treatment upon termination of employment as the DAP units. If Mr. Zaslav's employment with the Company is terminated without "Cause" or for "Good Reason" (each as defined in his employment agreement), all of his then-outstanding DAP units and all of his then-outstanding CS-SARs granted pursuant to the Addendum will fully vest. If this termination takes place before February 1, 2015, one half of the DAP units and CS-SARs outstanding at the time of termination will be valued as of (and paid within 60 days after) the date of termination and the remaining awards will be valued as of their respective vesting dates (or, if earlier, February 1, 2015) and paid within 60 days after the applicable date.
Pursuant to the Addendum, the Company is obligated to make a contribution in the amount of $1.5 million into the Company's Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (the "SRP") in each of January 2013 and 2014 for the benefit of Mr. Zaslav, without regard to whether he remains employed with us, assuming his employment with us has not previously been terminated for "Cause".   These contributions are intended to compensate Mr. Zaslav for the loss of his ability to defer payments under the DAP into the SRP.
Except as modified by the Addendum, the terms of Mr. Zaslav's current employment agreement remain in effect. These terms include customary restrictive covenants, including those relating to non-solicitation, non-interference, non-competition and confidentiality, during the term of Mr. Zaslav's employment and for one or two years thereafter, depending upon the reason his employment with us ends.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
10.1 Second Addendum to Employment Agreement dated December 15, 2011 between David Zaslav and Discovery Communications, Inc.
10.2 Form of David Zaslav Cash-Settled Stock Appreciation Award Agreement
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

This SECOND ADDENDUM TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this "Addendum") is made as of this 15th day of December, 2011 (the "Addendum Effective Date"), by and between Discovery Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at One Discovery Place, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910 (the "Company") and David M. Zaslav (the "Executive") (collectively, the "Parties").
WHEREAS, the Company employs the Executive as President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") under the terms of that certain Employment Agreement, dated November 28, 2006 (the "Employment Agreement"), as amended by the Addendum to Employment Agreement dated as of September 9, 2009 (the "First Addendum"); and
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to amend the Employment Agreement, as amended, in accordance with the terms set forth herein. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Employment Agreement or the First Addendum as applicable.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Addendum has been executed and delivered by the Parties as of the first date written above.
/s/ Adria Alpert Romm By: Adria Alpert Romm
Its: Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources December 15, 2011
- 3 -

Congratulations, you have been given a stock appreciation right (or "SAR") in recognition of your contributions to the success of Discovery Communications, Inc. (the "Company"). A stock appreciation right gives you the right to receive cash based on the increase in value, if any, between the value of the Company's Series A common stock when we grant the SAR (the base price) and the value when the SAR is exercised, assuming you satisfy the conditions of the Plan and the implementing agreement. We would like you to have an opportunity to share in the continued success of the Company through this stock appreciation rights grant under the Discovery Communications, Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated) (the "Plan"). The following represents a brief description of your grant. Additional details regarding your SAR are provided in the attached SAR Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") and in the Plan.
1
Determined based on the average closing price of single share of the Company's Series A common stock for the 10 trading days preceding and including the Date of Grant and the 10 trading days following the Date of Grant, determined based on publication in the Wall Street Journal or comparable successor publication.
     
Discovery Communications, Inc. (the "
Company
") has granted you a stock appreciation right (the "
SAR
") under the Discovery Communications, Inc. 2005 Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated) (the "
Plan
"). The Company's general program to offer equity and equity-type awards to eligible employees is referred to as the "
Performance Equity Program
" (or "
PEP
"). The SAR lets you receive a cash amount equivalent to the appreciation in value, if any, at the time of exercise, of a specified number of shares of the Company's Series A common stock (the "
SAR Shares
") over a specified measurement price per share (the "
Base Price
").
     
The individualized communication you received (the "
Cover Letter
") provides the details for your SAR. It specifies the number of SAR Shares, the Base Price, the Date of Grant, and the Scheduled Payment Dates.
     
The SAR is subject in all respects to the applicable provisions of the Plan. This Grant Agreement does not cover all of the rules that apply to the SAR under the Plan; please refer to the Plan document. Capitalized terms are defined either further below in this grant agreement (the "
Grant Agreement
") or in the Plan.
The Plan document is available on the Fidelity website. The Prospectus for the Plan and the Company's S-8, Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other filings the Company makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available for your review on the Company's web site. You may also obtain paper copies of these documents upon request to the Company's HR department.
Neither the Company nor anyone else is making any representations or promises regarding the duration of your service, exercisability of the SAR, the value of the Company's stock or of this SAR, or the Company's prospects. The Company is not providing any advice regarding tax consequences to you or regarding your decisions regarding the SAR; you agree to rely only upon your own personal advisors.
N
O ONE MAY SELL
,
TRANSFER
,
OR DISTRIBUTE THE
SAR
WITHOUT AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATING THERETO OR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO
D
ISCOVERY
C
OMMUNICATIONS
, I
NC
.
OR OTHER INFORMATION AND REPRESENTATIONS SATISFACTORY TO IT THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED
.
Page 2
Page 3
Page 4
ACTIVEUS 91566799v2


