FILE:DISCA/DISCA-8K-20120508073851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 8, 2012, Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery") released its earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of Discovery's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press Release dated May 8, 2012
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
AND ANNOUNCES $1 BILLION INCREASE TO SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
Silver Spring, Maryland  May 8, 2012:
Discovery Communications, Inc. ("Discovery" or the "Company") (NASDAQ: DISCA, DISCB, DISCK) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012.
David Zaslav, Discovery's President and Chief Executive Officer said, "Discovery is off to a great start in 2012 with strong first quarter results that built upon the consistent financial and operating momentum we generated throughout 2011. Viewers around the world are spending more time with our networks than ever before, and we are leveraging the demand for our programming across a worldwide ad market that remains healthy. The universal appeal of our content is also providing us further opportunities to capitalize on developing distribution systems and an evolving global pay-tv landscape. Investing in our brands to maximize the potential of our unique distribution platform, as well as emerging opportunities, remains a priority, and we are focused on doing so while delivering sustained growth and returning capital to shareholders."
First quarter revenues of $1,103 million increased $152 million, or 16%, over the first quarter a year ago, led by 16% growth at U.S. Networks and 18% growth at International Networks. Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization
(1)
("OIBDA") grew 19% to $507 million, driven by an 18% increase at U.S. Networks and a 19% increase at International Networks. Adjusted OIBDA margin for the first quarter increased to 46% from 45% in the first quarter of 2011.
First quarter net income from continuing operations available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $221 million ($0.57 per diluted share) decreased $84 million compared to $305 million ($0.74 per diluted share) for the first quarter a year ago as strong operating performance in the current year was more than offset by a gain of $102 million, net of tax, in the first quarter of 2011 from the contribution of the Discovery Health network to the OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network joint venture. Current quarter results also reflect that during the quarter the Company began recording 100% of OWN's net losses in Other expense, net, as accumulated operating losses at OWN exceeded the equity contributed to OWN.
Free cash flow was $227 million for the first quarter, an increase of $21 million from the first quarter of 2011, due to increased operating performance and lower long-term incentive compensation payments, partially offset by higher cash tax payments. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment.
(1) See the definition of Adjusted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization on page 4.
1
U.S. Networks' revenues in the first quarter of 2012 increased 16% to $681 million primarily driven by distribution and advertising revenue growth. Distribution revenue grew 23% largely from increased licensing revenue of $50 million driven by the delivery of selected library titles under new and existing licensing agreements. The current quarter also included higher rates and subscriber growth primarily from networks carried on the digital tier
.
Excluding the new and existing licensing agreements, distribution revenues grew 5% compared with the first quarter a year ago. Advertising revenue increased 13% due to higher pricing, increased ratings, and higher sellouts. Other revenue decreased $8 million due to lower revenue from services provided to unconsolidated equity method investees.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 18% to $395 million primarily reflecting the 16% revenue growth partially offset by 13% higher operating expenses. Current quarter expenses included additional costs associated with the new and existing licensing agreements, partially offset by expense reductions associated with services provided to unconsolidated equity method investees. Excluding the impact associated with the new and existing licensing agreements, Adjusted OIBDA increased 6% as the revenue growth was
2
partially offset by higher operating expenses primarily due to increased content amortization, marketing and personnel costs.
International Networks' revenues for the first quarter increased 18% to $380 million primarily led by distribution revenue growth of 14% and advertising revenue growth of 22%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, total revenues increased 20%. Distribution revenue, excluding foreign currency fluctuations as well as lower launch support amortization, grew 11% mainly from increased subscribers across all regions. Advertising revenue in local currency terms was up 25% during the first quarter, primarily from higher pricing and increased viewership at new and rebranded networks. Other revenue was $6 million higher primarily due to revenue from a production company acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted OIBDA increased 19% to $171 million reflecting the 18% revenue growth, partially offset by an 11% increase in operating expenses. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, Adjusted OIBDA grew 20% as the 20% revenue growth was partially offset by higher operating expenses primarily due to increased content, distribution and personnel costs.
Education and Other Adjusted OIBDA decreased $3 million compared to the first quarter of 2011 as slight revenue growth from higher school streaming volumes and assessment services for our education business was more than offset primarily by costs associated with digital textbook initiatives and higher personnel costs.
For the first quarter of 2012 Adjusted OIBDA decreased $5 million, primarily due to increased equity-based compensation.
During the quarter, the Company, pursuant to its existing stock repurchase program, repurchased 6.90 million shares of its Series C common stock at an average price of $41.74 per share for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $288 million.
From April 1, 2012 through May 3, 2012, the Company repurchased 2.71 million shares of its Series C common stock for approximately $130 million.
The Company has repurchased 39.76 million shares of Series C common stock under its $2.0 billion stock repurchase program to date at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.52 billion. In aggregate, including the 13.73 million preferred shares acquired from Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership, the Company has repurchased 13% of the shares outstanding since buyback activity was authorized in 2010.
The Company's Board of Directors has approved a $1.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program, to $3.0 billion. Under the stock repurchase program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases at prevailing prices or privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors.
During the third quarter of 2011, the Company expanded the components of distribution revenue reported in its financial statements to include content arrangements and other subscription services for content. Accordingly, prior period financial information has been reclassified so that the basis of the presentation is consistent with that of the 2012 financial information.
For the full year ending December 31, 2012, Discovery Communications, Inc. expects total revenue between $4.550 billion and $4.650 billion, Adjusted OIBDA between $2.125 billion and $2.200 billion, and net income available to Discovery Communications, Inc. stockholders of $1.000 billion to $1.100 billion. Our outlook incorporates current foreign exchange rates for revenues and expenses and the current share price for mark-to-market equity-based compensation calculations.
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") provided in this release, the Company has presented Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow. The Company evaluates the operating performance of its segments based on financial measures such as revenues and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA"). Adjusted OIBDA is defined as revenues less costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding: (i) mark-to-market equity-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) amortization of deferred launch incentives, (iv) exit and restructuring charges, (v) certain impairment charges, and (vi) gains and losses on business and asset dispositions. The Company uses this measure to assess operating results and performance of its segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance and allocate resources to each segment. The Company believes Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of
4
each segment using the same metric management uses. The Company excludes mark-to-market equity-based compensation, exit and restructuring charges, certain impairment charges, and gains and losses on business and asset dispositions from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their volatility. The Company also excludes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets and deferred launch incentives, as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period.
The Company defines free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less acquisitions of property and equipment. The Company uses free cash flow as it believes it is an important indicator for management and investors of the Company's liquidity, including its ability to reduce debt, make strategic investments and return capital to stockholders.
Adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures, and should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Please review the supplemental financial schedules beginning on page 9 for reconciliations to GAAP measures.
Discovery Communications, Inc. will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its first quarter results. To listen to the call, visit http://www.discoverycommunications.com or dial 1-866-770-7146 inside the U.S. and 1-617-213-8068 outside of the U.S., using the following passcode: 87431568.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 17, 2012. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Company's expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future, and can be identified by forward-looking words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," "will" and "would" or similar words. Forward-looking statements in this release include, without limitation, the full year 2012 outlook and plans for stock repurchases. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
5
9
10
11


