FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20021202210950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
 
On December 3, 2002, Intuit Inc. confirmed its current fiscal year 2003 guidance. The reiterated guidance is:
 
 
Intuit first announced this guidance on November 13, 2002 when the company reported its operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
 
.The pro forma information above is not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). It is presented for informational purposes only, to give investors an alternative method of assessing the results of the company's core operating businesses. This pro forma information should not be considered a substitute for the GAAP financial information. The company's pro forma information is presented using the same consistent standards from quarter to quarter and year to year. Because there are no generally accepted industry standards for presenting pro forma results, the method Intuit uses may differ from the methods used by other companies. In addition, pro forma presentations are a current topic of proposed SEC rules. These rules may change the way in which we present our non-GAAP financial information.
Pro Forma Accounting
    
 
Company pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangible assets and impairment charges, and amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. It also excludes loss on impairment of long-lived asset, gains and losses from marketable securities and other investments, net gains and losses on divestitures, discontinued operations and the tax effects of these transactions.
 
.    Intuit's guidance constitutes a forward-looking statement about future financial results. Actual results may differ materially from Intuit's expressed expectations because of risks and uncertainties about the future. We will not update our guidance if it later turns out to be inaccurate, except as required by law. Risks and uncertainties that may affect future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described below. More details about these and other risks are included in our fiscal 2002 Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


