FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20030819161600.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On August 19, 2003, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, and refers to them as "pro forma." Intuit computes its pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Intuit's pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and pro forma diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies.
     Intuit's management believes that these pro forma measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Pro forma financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the historical and forward-looking pro forma financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are in Tables B1, B2 and D to the attached press release.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
INTUIT CONFIDENTIAL
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Intuit Inc. (NASDAQ: INTU) today announced results for its fourth quarter and fiscal 2003, which ended July 31, 2003. The company also announced a new stock repurchase program.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 19, 2003
     "Intuit continued to execute on its recipe to drive sustained, profitable growth," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "That recipe involves being in the right businesses, executing effectively, expanding customer-driven innovation and acquiring new growth platforms. These powerful ingredients produced strong results for the quarter and year."
Fiscal 2003 Financial Highlights
 
Fiscal 2003 Business Segment Revenue Growth
Fourth-Quarter 2003 Highlights
 
Board Authorizes Intuit's New Stock Repurchase Program
     Intuit's board of directors has authorized the company's third stock repurchase program for up to $500 million in addition to the approximately $110 million that remained in Intuit's existing program at the end of fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2003, Intuit repurchased nearly 18 million shares for more than $800 million. The company has repurchased more than 25.5 million shares for a total of approximately $1.1 billion since its first program became effective in May 2001.
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2004
Intuit reaffirmed its guidance for fiscal 2004, which ends July 31, 2004:
Forward-Looking Guidance for First-Quarter 2004
Intuit's guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2004 is:
About pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures
Intuit computes its pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Pro forma operating income excludes
 
acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share exclude the same items excluded from pro forma operating income and also exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies. The accompanying tables and fact sheet have more details on Intuit's historical performance and financial projections, the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to Intuit's pro forma financial measures, and the reconciliations of pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
Conference Call Scripts and Dial-In Information
The script that accompanies the Intuit earnings conference call and a live audio Web-cast of the call is available at www.intuit.com/company/investors. This press release, including the tables, is available at that site and any other supplemental financial and statistical information required to be posted, including pro forma reconciliations, will be posted to that site.
The conference call number is 800-615-5585 (706-679-0331 from international locations). The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time. No reservation or access code is needed. Those planning to listen to the conference call should download the script before the call begins. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 800-642-1687 (706-645-9291 for international locations). The reservation number is 1917544.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements about future financial results and other events that have not yet occurred, including guidance about our expected results for fiscal 2004. Statements in the "guidance" sections of this release, statements including words such as "expect," "anticipate" or "believe," and statements in the future tense, are forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from our expressed expectations because of risks and uncertainties about the future. Some of the important factors that could cause our results to differ are discussed below. More details about these and other risks are included in our SEC filings, in our August 19, 2003, press release, and at www.intuit.com/company/investors/considerations.html. We do not intend to update the information in this presentation if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate.
 
 
 
The pro forma or non-GAAP financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Tables B1 and B2 for reconciliations of these pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
 
The pro forma or non-GAAP financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes ii through v for details.
 
The pro forma or non-GAAP financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes ii through v for details.
 
Notes to Tables A1, B1 and B2:
 
 
The pro forma or non-GAAP financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking pro forma financial measures to GAAP in this Table D include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. The adjustments in this table are those that management can predict. Intuit's pro forma financial measures exclude acquisition-related charges, discontinued operations and gains and losses on marketable securities. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable securities.
 
Financial Outlook
(A)
Business Metrics
Segment Composition
Corporate Metrics


