FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20040519162027.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
99.01 Press release issued on May 19, 2004.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On May 19, 2004, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended April 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, and refers to them as "pro forma." Intuit computes its pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Intuit's pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and pro forma diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies.
     Intuit's management believes that these pro forma measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Pro forma financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the historical and forward-looking pro forma financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the tables attached to the press release filed as an exhibit to this Report.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 19, 2004
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
 Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced results for the third quarter of fiscal 2004, which ended April 30, 2004.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  May 19, 2004
     "Intuit delivered great results for the third quarter," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "For the first time in Intuit's history, we had quarterly revenue of more than $700 million. Pro forma diluted EPS of $1.20 also set a new quarterly record. QuickBooks had a great quarter and we're coming off another strong TurboTax season."
Third-Quarter 2004 Highlights
 
Third-Quarter Business Segment Revenue Growth
Fourth-Quarter 2004 Guidance
     Although financial analysts have developed their own estimates for Intuit's fourth-quarter performance, Intuit had not previously issued guidance for the quarter. Intuit's expected results for the fourth-quarter 2004, which will end July 31, 2004 are:
 
Fiscal 2004 Guidance
     Intuit's guidance for fiscal 2004 is fourth quarter guidance added to actual results for the first three quarters:
Fiscal 2005 Guidance
     Intuit expects annual revenue growth in the high single digits in fiscal 2005, which begins Aug. 1, 2004. The company expects annual pro forma diluted EPS growth of 15 percent to 20 percent.
Conference Call Scripts, Webcast and Conference Call Information
     The script that accompanies Intuit's conference call and a live audio webcast of the call is available at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html. The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. (PST). The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. This press release, including the tables, is available at that site and any other supplemental financial and statistical information required to be posted, including pro forma reconciliation, will be posted to that site.
     The conference call number is (800) 615-5585 and (706) 679-0331 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling (800) 642-1687, and (706) 645-9291 from international locations. The reservation number is 7124880.
 
     Intuit, the Intuit logo, Quicken, QuickBooks, and TurboTax, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures
     Intuit's management believes that the pro forma financial measures it uses provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
     Intuit computes its pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies. The accompanying tables and fact sheet have more details on Intuit's historical performance and financial projections, the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to Intuit's pro forma financial measures, and the reconciliation of pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of our expected financial results. All of the statements under the headings "Fourth-Quarter Fiscal 2004 Guidance," "Fiscal 2004 Guidance," and "Fiscal 2005 Guidance" are forward-looking statements. A number of risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expressed expectations. Some of the important factors that could cause our results to differ include the following:
 
More details about these and other risks are included in our Forms 10-Q, 2003 Form 10-K, and other SEC filings and at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors. We do not undertake any duty to update the information in this press release except as otherwise required by law.
 
See accompanying Notes.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Tables B1 and B2 for reconciliations of these pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes [A] through [G] for details.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes [A] through [G] for details.
 
 
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking pro forma financial measures to GAAP in this Table D1 include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. The adjustments in this table are those that management can predict. Intuit's pro forma financial measures exclude acquisition-related charges, discontinued operations and gains and losses on marketable securities. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable securities.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
 
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
 
Financial Outlook
[A]
Corporate Metrics
Segment Composition
Core (Basic, Pro, 5-Pack, Mac) Premier (incl. POS) Enterprise Online Edition OEM and Royalties
QuickBooks
Payroll (DIY, OSP) IT Solutions Support Programs Supplies Merchant Account Services Customer Manager Financial Statement Reporter
Small Business Products & Services
Basic, Deluxe, Premier
TurboTax
ProSeries, Lacerte EasyACCT PAP Client Manager
Professional Accounting Solutions
Intuit Construction Business Solutions Intuit Public Sector Solutions Intuit Real Estate Solutions (MRI) Intuit Distribution Management Solutions (Eclipse)
Vertical Businesses
 
Business Metrics
NM: Not Meaningful


