FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20041117161004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On November 17, 2004, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, and refers to them as "pro forma." Intuit computes its pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Intuit's pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and pro forma diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies.
     Intuit's management believes that these pro forma measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Pro forma financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the historical and forward-looking pro forma financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the tables attached to the press release filed as an exhibit to this Report.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
* This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 
Exhibit 99.01
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Nov. 17, 2004  Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced its first-quarter 2005 revenue increased 11 percent over the year-ago quarter to $266.0 million. Strong revenue growth and lower expenses led to a better-than-expected bottom line result. The company's first quarter ended on Oct. 31, 2004.
     "Intuit delivered solid growth in the first quarter and we believe we're on track to deliver another year of good revenue and profit growth," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "We're excited about our future. We've made great progress with our Right for Me' strategy over the last few years. And we continue to solve important customer problems with innovative new products like QuickBooks: Simple Start for new small businesses and SnapTax for taxpayers with simple tax returns."
First-Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
 
First-Quarter 2005 Business Portfolio and Segment Results
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2005
     Intuit reaffirmed its financial guidance for fiscal 2005, which it provided on Aug. 18, 2004:
 
Forward-Looking Guidance for Second-Quarter 2005
     Intuit reaffirmed its revenue guidance for the second quarter, which ends on Jan. 31, 2005, that it provided on Oct. 7, 2004, and provided operating income and EPS guidance for the first time:
Forward-Looking Guidance for Third-Quarter 2005
     Intuit reaffirmed its revenue guidance for the third quarter, which ends on April 30, 2005, that it provided on Oct. 7, 2004, and provided EPS guidance for the first time:
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fourth-Quarter 2005
     For its fourth quarter, which ends July 31, 2005, Intuit expects:
Conference Call Scripts, Webcast and Conference Call Information
     A live audio webcast of Intuit's first-quarter conference call is available at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html. The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. (PST). The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has posted to its Web site this press release, including the attached tables and pro forma to GAAP reconciliations. It will post the conference call script to the Web site shortly after the conference call concludes.
     The conference call number is (866) 244-4515 in the United States and (703) 639-1168 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling (888) 266-2081 in the United States and (703) 925-2533 from international locations. The access code is 588189.
 
Intuit, the Intuit logo, Quicken and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
Intuit's management believes that the pro forma financial measures it uses provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
About pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures
Pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies. The accompanying tables and fact sheet have more details on Intuit's historical performance and financial projections, the GAAP financial measures that are most directly comparable to Intuit's pro forma financial measures, and the reconciliation of pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of our expected financial results. Mr. Bennett's statement regarding our expectations that we are on track to deliver another year of good revenue and profit growth and all of the statements under the headings "Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2005," "Forward-Looking Guidance for Second-Quarter Fiscal 2005," "Forward-Looking Guidance for Third-Quarter Fiscal 2005," and "Forward-Looking Guidance for Fourth-Quarter Fiscal 2005" are forward-looking statements. A number of risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expressed expectations. Some of the important factors that could cause our results to differ include the following: our revenue, profitability and market position can be negatively impacted in an unpredictable manner due to product introductions and price competition from our competitors, including competition from Microsoft in our software businesses and governmental encroachment in our tax businesses; revenue growth for some of our products is slowing and we must successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives; our new product offerings may not succeed or they may negatively impact our profitability if customers elect to purchase lower-priced simplified offerings instead of our higher priced offerings; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue is between quarters is difficult to predict which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; we are implementing new information systems and problems with the design or implementation of these new systems could interfere with our ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage our business; litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs; and our failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
 
in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2004 and in subsequent Form 10-Q, and other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors. We do not undertake any duty to update the information in this press release except as otherwise required by law.
 
See accompanying Notes.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Table B for reconciliations of these pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes [A] through [E] for details.
 
 
 
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking pro forma financial measures to GAAP in this Table D1 include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. The adjustments in this table are those that management can predict. Intuit's pro forma financial measures exclude acquisition-related charges, discontinued operations and gains and losses on marketable securities. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable securities.
 
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
 
Financial Summary
Corporate Metrics
Portfolio and Segment Composition
 
Business Metrics
 
Guidance
Portfolio and Segment Composition
Small Business


