FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20040818161431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On August 18, 2004, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures, and refers to them as "pro forma." Intuit computes its pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Intuit's pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of goodwill and intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and pro forma diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies.
     Intuit's management believes that these pro forma measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Pro forma financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the historical and forward-looking pro forma financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the tables attached to the press release filed as an exhibit to this Report.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 18, 2004  Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced results for its fourth quarter and fiscal 2004, which ended July 31, 2004.
      "Intuit again delivered solid growth for the quarter and year," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "TurboTax and Small Business Products and Services  our two largest segments  had particularly strong years. Looking ahead, we expect our portfolio to deliver steady revenue and strong profit growth."
Fiscal 2004 Financial Highlights
Fiscal 2004 Business Segment Revenue Growth
 
Fourth-Quarter 2004 Highlights
Intuit to Sell Public Sector Solutions Business
     Intuit said it has decided to sell its public sector business management solutions business. "Intuit is very rigorous about managing our portfolio so that we're always focused on the right growth opportunities," said Bennett. "Over the past several years, we've made a number of changes to our portfolio  acquiring or developing businesses that fit our growth criteria and exiting those that don't. A combination of industry dynamics, our competitive position and our other opportunities make this the right decision for Intuit. We like our other verticals businesses and are pleased with the solid revenue and profit growth they're delivering."
 
     Intuit Public Sector Solutions (IPSS) contributed $13 million in revenue in fiscal 2004. Without the business, Intuit's verticals portfolio had 17 percent revenue growth in fiscal 2004.
     While IPSS performance is included in the results Intuit reported today and will be included in its upcoming Form 10-K, it will be treated as a discontinued business in future financial filings, as required. As a result, Intuit did not include past or future results from the IPSS business when it developed pro forma first-quarter and fiscal year 2005 guidance, but have included it in GAAP EPS guidance.
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2005
     Intuit provided more detail on its financial guidance for fiscal 2005, which will end July 31, 2005:
Forward-Looking Guidance for First-Quarter 2005
     Although financial analysts have developed their own estimates for Intuit's first-quarter 2005, Intuit has not previously issued guidance for the quarter. Intuit's expected results for the first quarter of fiscal 2005, which will end October 31, 2004, are:
 
Conference Call Scripts, Webcast and Conference Call Information
     The script that accompanies Intuit's conference call and a live audio webcast of the call is available at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html. The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. (PDT). The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. This press release, including the tables, is available at that site and any other supplemental financial and statistical information required to be posted, including pro forma reconciliations, will be posted to that site.
     The conference call number is (888) 243-0813 in the United States and (703) 925-2400 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling (888) 266-2081 in the United States and (703) 925-2533 from international locations. The access code is 520520.
Intuit, the Intuit logo, Quicken, QuickBooks, and TurboTax, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures
Intuit's management believes that the pro forma financial measures it uses provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
Intuit computes its pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. Pro forma operating income excludes acquisition-related charges, such as amortization of intangibles and impairment charges, as well as amortization of purchased software and charges for purchased research and development. Pro forma net income and diluted earnings per share exclude discontinued operations, gains and losses on marketable securities and other investments, as well as the tax effects of these transactions. These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and likely are different from non-GAAP or pro forma financial measures used by other companies. The accompanying tables and fact sheet have more details on Intuit's historical performance and financial projections, the GAAP financial measures that are
 
most directly comparable to Intuit's pro forma financial measures, and the reconciliation of pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of our expected financial results. Mr. Bennett's statement regarding our expectations for delivering steady revenue and strong profit growth and all of the statements under the headings "Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2005," and "Forward-Looking Guidance for First Quarter Fiscal 2005" are forward-looking statements. A number of risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expressed expectations. Some of the important factors that could cause our results to differ include the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors, including competition from Microsoft in our software businesses and governmental encroachment in our tax businesses, can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; we are implementing new information systems and problems with the design or implementation of these new systems could interfere with our ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage our business; revenue growth for some of our products is slowing and we must successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives; our new product offerings may not succeed or they may negatively impact our profitability if customers elect to purchase lower-priced simplified offerings; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs; and our failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2003 and in subsequent Form 10-Q, and other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors. We do not undertake any duty to update the information in this press release except as otherwise required by law.
 
See accompanying Notes.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Tables B1 and B2 for reconciliations of these pro forma financial measures to GAAP.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes [A] through [G] for details.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. See Notes [A] through [G] for details.
 
 
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking pro forma financial measures to GAAP in this Table D1 include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. The adjustments in this table are those that management can predict. Intuit's pro forma financial measures exclude acquisition-related charges, discontinued operations and gains and losses on marketable securities. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable securities.
 
The pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These pro forma financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and likely are different from pro forma financial measures used by other companies. Intuit's management believes that these pro forma financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's core operating results because they exclude amounts that are not necessarily related to Intuit's core operating results. Intuit's management refers to these pro forma financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These pro forma financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. In addition, Intuit has historically reported similar pro forma financial measures and believes that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in its financial reporting. Intuit computes pro forma financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
 
Financial Outlook
Corporate Metrics
FY04 Segment Composition
QuickBooks
Core (Basic, Pro, 5-Pack, Mac)
Premier
Point of Sale
Enterprise
Online Edition
OEM and Royalties
Small Business Products & Services
Payroll (Do It Yourself, Outsourced Payroll)
IT Solutions
QuickBooks Support Programs
Financial Supplies
Merchant Account Services
Consumer Tax (TurboTax)
ProTax
ProSeries
Lacerte
Vertical Businesses
Intuit Construction Business Solutions
Intuit Public Sector Solutions
Intuit Real Estate Solutions (MRI)
Intuit Distribution Management Solutions (Eclipse)
 
Business Metrics
 
Guidance (Excludes Intuit Public Sector Solutions)
Segment Composition
Small Business
QuickBooks Related
      QuickBooks Software
      Financial Supplies
      Do It Yourself Payroll
      Point of Sale
      QuickBooks Support Programs
      Merchant Account Services
Other Small Business
      Outsourced Payroll
      IT Solutions
      Intuit Construction Business
      Intuit Real Estate Solutions (MRI)
      Intuit Distribution Management Solutions (Eclipse)
Tax
Consumer Tax (TurboTax)
Professional Tax
      ProSeries
      Lacerte
Other
Other Business
      Quicken
      Non-US
 
INTUIT INC. NEW BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Note: IPSS is included in Other Small Business
Note: IPSS is included in Other Small Business


