FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20060822160945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On August 22, 2006, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2006 and provided forward-looking guidance for its 2007 fiscal year. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
- Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced strong results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 31, 2006.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 22, 2006
          "Intuit just completed another very successful year of double-digit growth in revenue and earnings per share," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "Our two big businesses, QuickBooks and Consumer Tax, had outstanding results and our other business segments performed well. I'm very pleased with our position as we enter fiscal 2007."
Fiscal 2006 Financial Highlights
 
Intuit Earnings Page 2
Fiscal 2006 Business Segment Revenue Growth
Fourth-Quarter 2006 Highlights
2
 
Intuit Earnings Page 3
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2007
          Intuit provided its financial guidance for fiscal 2007, which will end on July 31, 2007. The company expects:
Forward-Looking Guidance and New Business Segments
          Intuit has changed its business segments to reflect a new management structure and to better align reporting with the company's strategy. Definitions of the new segments and expected fiscal 2007 revenue by segment are as follows:
3
 
Intuit Earnings Page 4
Forward-Looking Guidance for First-Quarter 2007
          Intuit's expected results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, which will end Oct. 31, 2006 are:
Webcast and Conference Call Information
          A live audio webcast of Intuit's fourth-quarter and fiscal 2006 conference call is available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. PDT. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has posted to its Web site this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations. Intuit will post the conference call script to the Web site shortly after the conference call concludes.
www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html
4
 
Intuit Earnings Page 5
          The conference call number is 866-837-9789 in the United States or 703-639-1425 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code is 945569.
Intuit, the Intuit logo, Quicken, QuickBooks and TurboTax, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This press release and the accompanying tables and sheet titled "Intuit Facts" include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B, Table E1 and Table E2 which follow it. A copy of the press release filed by Intuit on Aug. 22, 2006 can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site at .
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
www.intuit.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2007 and beyond; all of the statements under the headings "Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2007," "Forward-Looking Guidance and New Business Segments" and "Forward-Looking Guidance for First-Quarter 2007;" and all information under the heading "Guidance" on the attached fact sheet.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors, including Microsoft, can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities regulating the filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; any failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability; any significant product quality problems or delays in our products could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation, our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue due to potential customers filing free federal tax returns and electing not to pay for state filing or other services and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; we have implemented, and are continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with our ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage our business; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 and in our other SEC filings.
5
 
Intuit Earnings Page 6
You can locate these reports through our Web site at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of Aug. 22, 2006, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in this presentation.
<http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors>
6
 
 
 
The accompanying press release dated August 22, 2006 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Tables B and E1 reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In addition, Tables E1 and E2 reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures found in the accompanying document entitled "Intuit Facts" to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income (loss) and related operating margin as a percentage of revenue, non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when assessing the performance of the organization, our operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related costs, or the other excluded items that may impact their business units' operating income (loss) and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We also exclude these amounts from our budget and planning process. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures:
The following describes each non-GAAP financial measure, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measure in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
We refer to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate our internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E1 include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding this Table B for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure. All share and per share figures in this Table B retroactively reflect our July 2006 two-for-one common stock split.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure. All per share figures in this Table E2 retroactively reflect our July 2006 two-for-one common stock split.
 
Financial Summary
 
Historical Segments: QuickBooks Related  QuickBooks Software, QuickBooks Payroll, Financial Supplies, Innovative Merchant Solutions; Intuit-Branded Small Business  Outsourced Payroll, Intuit Real Estate Solutions, Intuit Distribution Management Solutions, Intuit Construction Business Solutions; Consumer Tax  TurboTax; Professional Tax  ProSeries, Lacerte; Other Businesses  Quicken, Canada/UK
 
Business Metrics
 
 
Intuit Facts
FY07 Financial Outlook
Guidance
[H]
 
New Segments: QuickBooks  QuickBooks Software, Financial Supplies; Payroll & Payments  DIY Payroll, Assisted/Outsourced Payroll, Innovative Merchant Solutions Consumer Tax  TurboTax; Professional Tax  ProSeries, Lacerte; Other Businesses  IDMS, IRES, Quicken


