FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20060517161522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On May 17, 2006, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2006 and provided forward-looking guidance for its 2006 fiscal year. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
- Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: ) today announced its third-quarter 2006 revenue increased 14 percent over the year-ago quarter to $953 million. Growth was driven by an outstanding Consumer Tax season and continued strong performance in QuickBooks.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  May 17, 2006
INTU
     "Intuit delivered another terrific quarter," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "The Consumer Tax business had a record season, with great execution across the board, and our QuickBooks businesses continued to perform very well. We're on track to deliver another year of double-digit revenue growth."
Third-Quarter 2006 Financial Highlights
     Intuit posted GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income of $298.6 million, down less than 1 percent from the year-ago quarter due to share-based compensation expenses and a higher tax rate. GAAP diluted earnings per share, or EPS, was $1.68, up 4 percent from the year-ago quarter.
     Intuit's non-GAAP net income of $318.3 million was up 11 percent over the prior-year period. Non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1.79, up 16 percent over the same period last year.
Third-Quarter 2006 Business Segment Results
 
Fiscal 2006 Guidance
Intuit updated its guidance for fiscal 2006, which ends on July 31, 2006. The company now expects:
Fourth-Quarter 2006 Guidance
Intuit updated its GAAP EPS guidance for its fiscal fourth quarter, which ends on July 31, 2006. The company expects:
 
Board Approves Two-for-One Stock Split
     Intuit's board of directors approved a two-for-one stock split payable July 6, 2006 to stockholders of record on June 21, 2006. The company's stock is expected to begin trading on a post-split basis on July 7, 2006.
Company Announces New Stock Repurchase Program
     The company also announced today a new stock repurchase program for up to $500 million over the next three years.
Webcast and Conference Call Information
     A live audio webcast of Intuit's third-quarter 2006 conference call is available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. PDT. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has posted to its Web site this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations. Intuit will post the conference call script to the Web site shortly after the conference call concludes.
www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html
     The conference call number is (866) 259-7123 in the United States or (703) 639-1220 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling (888) 266-2081, or (703) 925-2533 from international locations. The access code is 896100.
Intuit, the Intuit logo, Quicken, QuickBooks and TurboTax, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This press release and the accompanying tables and sheet entitled "Intuit Facts" include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), please see the section of the accompanying tables entitled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B, Table E1 and Table E2 which follow it. A copy of the press release filed by Intuit on May 17, 2006, can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site at .
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
www.intuit.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of its expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2006 and beyond; the statement that the company is on track to deliver another year of double-digit growth, all of the statements under the headings "Fiscal 2006 Guidance" and "Fourth-Quarter 2006 Guidance;" our expectation that the sale of our Master Builder business will close in the fourth quarter; and all information under the heading "Guidance" on the attached fact sheet.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
 
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause Intuit's actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from Intuit's competitors, including Microsoft, can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in the company's tax businesses or other governmental activities regulating the filing of tax returns could negatively affect Intuit's operating results and market position; current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm Intuit's operating results and financial condition; the company may not be able to accurately predict consumer behavior, and consumers may not respond as Intuit expects to its advertising and promotional activities; its participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue due to potential customers filing free federal returns and electing not to pay for state filing or other services and cannibalization of Intuit's traditional paid franchise; the company's revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of its revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in Intuit's financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; the company may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet its growth and profitability objectives; its new product or service offerings may not attract customers or they may negatively impact Intuit's profitability if the business models for new offerings are not successful or if customers elect to purchase lower-priced alternatives; Intuit has implemented, and is continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with Intuit's ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage its business; its financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or Intuit may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing the number of outstanding shares to grow; litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase costs; and Intuit's failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for its offerings could cause the company to lose customers and negatively impact its revenues and profitability; and the conditions to closing the sale of the Master Builder business might not be satisfied or may take longer to satisfy than expected, the purchase agreement could be terminated by the parties in accordance with its terms, or the actual impact of the sale on our results could vary due to potential adjustments to the purchase price. More details about these and other risks that may impact Intuit's business are included in the Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 and in other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through Intuit's Web site at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 17, 2006, and Intuit does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in this press release.
<http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors>
 
 
 
The accompanying press release dated May 17, 2006 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Tables B and E1 reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In addition, Tables E1 and E2 reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures found in the accompanying document entitled "Intuit Facts" to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income and related operating margin as a percentage of revenue, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when assessing the performance of the organization, our operating segments or our senior management. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures:
The following describes each non-GAAP financial measure, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measure in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
We refer to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate our internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E1 include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding this Table B for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these non-GAAP adjustments.
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these non-GAAP adjustments.
 
 
 
Note: All amounts except GAAP EPS exclude information related to Intuit Information Technology Solutions, which we sold in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
Segments: QuickBooks Related  QuickBooks Software, QuickBooks Payroll, Financial Supplies, Innovative Merchant Solutions; Intuit-Branded Small Business  Outsourced Payroll, Intuit Real Estate Solutions, Intuit Distribution Management Solutions, Intuit Construction Business Solutions; Consumer Tax  TurboTax; Professional Tax  ProSeries, Lacerte; Other Businesses  Quicken, Canada/UK
Page 1
 
 
Page 1


