FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20061030172321.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
     The information in this report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
     On October 30, 2006, Intuit Inc. issued a press release related to the termination of the investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Intuit's historical stock option granting practices. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) announced today that the Securities and Exchange Commission has formally notified Intuit that its investigation of Intuit's historical stock option granting practices has been terminated and that it will not recommend any enforcement action.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Oct. 30, 2006 
          As disclosed in June 2006, Intuit received an informal request from the SEC for information on historical stock option granting practices. A special committee of independent members of Intuit's Board of Directors conducted a review of these practices. In August 2006, Intuit announced the completion of this independent review, which uncovered no evidence of fraud or intentional wrongdoing in the company's historical stock option granting practices. Based on this review, Intuit concluded that it did not need to restate its historical financial statements. Intuit presented the results of this independent review to the SEC and to the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California. The U.S. Attorney has also received the same information submitted to the SEC and has not made any additional requests for information.
About Intuit Inc.
          Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants.
          Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $2.3 billion in its fiscal year 2006. The company has nearly 7,500 employees with major offices in 13 states across the United States, and offices in Canada and the United Kingdom. More information can be found at .
www.intuit.com


