FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20060816161718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
     The information in this report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
     On August 16, 2006, Intuit Inc. issued a press release related to the completion of the independent review of Intuit's historical stock option practices. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) announced today that the special committee composed of independent members of its Board of Directors has completed the previously announced independent review of historical options granting practices. The comprehensive review, conducted with the assistance of independent counsel and external forensic accountants, uncovered no evidence of fraud or intentional wrongdoing in the company's historical stock option granting practices. The primary scope of the review covered the period from Aug. 1, 1997 to the present.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 16, 2006 
     Based on the findings of the independent review, the company has concluded that it does not anticipate any restatement of its previously filed financial statements. The company has reported this conclusion to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California and will cooperate with any further inquiries.
     As previously announced, on Aug. 22, 2006 Intuit will issue the company's financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2006.
 
Intuit Investigation Completed Page 2
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants.
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of more than $2 billion in its fiscal year 2005. The company has nearly 7,000 employees with major offices in 13 states across the United States, and offices in Canada and the United Kingdom. More information can be found at .
www.intuit.com
Caution About Forward Looking Statements
     This press release contains forward-looking statements, including that the company does not anticipate any restatement of previously filed financial statements. This statement is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including but not limited to risks and uncertainties associated with the ongoing audit of the company's financial statements by its independent auditors in connection with the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006. More details about other risks that may affect Intuit's business are included in the Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 and in other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through Intuit's Web site at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the date of the press release, and Intuit does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in this press release.
<http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors>


