FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20061130081717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
     On November 29, 2006, Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Intuit"), entered into a definitive merger agreement (the "Merger Agreement") to acquire Digital Insight Corporation ("Digital Insight") in a merger transaction pursuant to which Digital Insight will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intuit (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and subject to the conditions thereof, Intuit will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Digital Insight Corporation Common Stock for a cash amount of $39.00 per share, for a total purchase price of approximately $1.35 billion on a fully diluted basis. Intuit will assume Digital Insight's stock options which are outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (other than options held by non-employee directors of Digital Insight). Each assumed Digital Insight stock option will be converted into an option to purchase a number of shares of Intuit common stock equal to $39.00 divided by the average closing sales price for a share of Intuit Common Stock as quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market for the ten consecutive trading days ending with the third trading day that precedes the closing date of the Merger. Each unvested Digital Insight stock option held by non-employee directors of Digital Insight will be accelerated and all outstanding options held by non-employee directors will receive a cash payment equal to the difference of $39.00 per share multiplied by the number of Digital Insight shares subject to the option, less the aggregate exercise price of the option. Payment for unvested shares of restricted stock will be made in cash on the date that such shares would have become vested in accordance with the holders' restricted stock vesting schedules. This transaction will be taxable to Digital Insight stockholders.
     Each of Digital Insight's disinterested directors and certain of its executive officers have agreed, in their capacity as stockholders of Digital Insight, to vote their shares in favor of the Merger and against any proposal made in opposition to or in competition with the Merger.
     The consummation of the Merger is subject to regulatory review, Digital Insight stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions. Dates for closing the Merger and for Digital Insight's stockholders' meeting to vote on the Merger have not yet been determined.
     Intuit expects to file a copy of the Merger Agreement as an exhibit to its Form 10-Q for the quarter ending January 31, 2007. We encourage you to read the Merger Agreement for a more complete understanding of the transaction. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement.
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On November 30, 2006, Intuit issued a joint press release with Digital Insight announcing the transaction described in Item 1.01 above. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.01 hereto.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) and Digital Insight Corp. (Nasdaq: DGIN) have signed a definitive agreement for Intuit to acquire Digital Insight. Under the terms of the agreement, Intuit will pay $39 per share in cash for each Digital Insight common share. The total purchase price is approximately $1.35 billion on a fully diluted basis.
MOUNTAIN VIEW and CALABASAS, Calif.  Nov. 30, 2006 
     The acquisition will bring together Digital Insight, a leading provider of online banking services, and Intuit, the leading provider of financial management software, to millions of small businesses and consumers. Together, the companies will serve more than 5,000 financial institutions, nearly 25 million consumers and nearly 7 million small businesses. The acquisition will combine Intuit's culture of customer-driven innovation and leading brands with Digital Insight's best-in-class distribution and application service provider model.
     "The combination of two industry leaders will put Intuit in an excellent position to bring a new generation of online banking solutions to market in a way that will redefine the way small businesses and consumers manage their financial lives," said Steve Bennett, Intuit president and chief executive officer.
     With the acquisition, Intuit will be able to combine work flows in its financial management tools with online banking capability offered by Digital Insight to create new, easier, and better-value offerings for consumers and small businesses.
 
     "Online banking is growing rapidly, but today's solutions don't meet the needs of most small businesses and many consumers," said Jeff Stiefler, Digital Insight chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Digital Insight's and Intuit's combined assets and competencies will change the game for small businesses, consumers and the financial institutions that serve them. In addition to the clear business benefit of this proposed acquisition, both companies have already had the opportunity to work closely together to develop the mutual trust and respect that is a critical prerequisite for any business combination to be successful."
     Following the closing of the acquisition, Digital Insight's business operations will continue to operate from its existing facilities in California and Georgia. The Digital Insight business operations will establish the foundation for a newly formed financial institutions business division within Intuit, with Stiefler serving as that unit's president.
     The transaction is subject to regulatory review, Digital Insight shareholder approval and other customary closing conditions. After closing, expected in the first calendar quarter of 2007, Digital Insight will become part of Intuit, and Digital Insight stock will cease trading. Intuit plans to finance the transaction with a combination of existing cash balances and up to $1 billion of debt financing, although there are no financing contingencies in the merger agreement. The transaction is expected to be dilutive to Intuit by two to three cents per share on a non GAAP basis in its current fiscal year and slightly accretive on a non GAAP basis in fiscal 2008.
     A live audio webcast conference call is available at . The call begins today at 5:30 a.m. Pacific. A replay of the audio webcast will remain on the Intuit and Digital Insight Web sites for one week after the conference call. Intuit has also posted this press release on its Web site and will post the conference call script shortly after that call ends.
http://web.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html
     The conference call number is 866-837-9782 in the United States or 703-639-1420 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for two weeks by calling 888-266-2081 or 703-925-2533 for international callers. The replay access code is 1004956.
 
About Digital Insight Corporation
     Digital Insight Corporation (Nasdaq: DGIN) is the leading provider of on-demand banking services to mid-market banks and credit unions in the United States. The company's extensive portfolio of on-demand applications is hosted in its world-class data center and securely delivered via the Internet. Outsourcing the management of online banking services to Digital Insight empowers financial institutions to generate new sources of revenue, increase customer retention and realize increased cost efficiencies. For more information, visit .
www.digitalinsight.com
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants.
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $2.3 billion in its fiscal year 2006. The company has nearly 7,500 employees with major offices in 13 states across the United States, and offices in Canada and the United Kingdom. More information can be found at .
www.intuit.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release includes "forward-looking statements" which are subject to safe harbors created under the U.S. federal securities laws. All statements included in this press release that address activities, events or developments that Intuit and Digital Insight expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, particularly, statements about the potential benefits of the proposed transaction to Intuit, including the ability to address new markets and offer new solutions, the potential benefits of the proposed acquisition to financial institutions and their customers and to small businesses, the expected financial impact of the acquisition on Intuit, the expected financing of the acquisition, and the expected closing of the proposed combination, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include: the risk that the transaction is not consummated or is not consummated within the expected timeframe; the risk that the expected benefits of the proposed acquisition are not realized; the risk that disruption from the transaction may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees, partners or suppliers; the risk that future products and services may not be successful or achieve broad market acceptance; and the risk that Intuit will not be able to successfully integrate Digital Insight's market opportunities, technology, personnel and operations and achieve planned synergies. For information regarding other related risks,
 
see discussion of risks and other factors in documents filed by Intuit and Digital Insight with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including Digital Insight's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005 and report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2006 as well as Intuit's Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2006. Forward-looking statements represent the judgment of the management of Digital Insight and Intuit as of the date of this release, and Digital Insight and Intuit disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Accretion and dilution calculated on non GAAP basis
In estimating future accretion and dilution on a non GAAP basis, Intuit excludes share-based compensation expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges, net gains on marketable equity securities and other investments, gains and losses on disposals of businesses, certain discrete tax items and amounts related to discontinued operations from its GAAP earnings per share.
Additional Information About the Proposed Transaction and Where You Can Find It
In connection with the proposed transaction, Digital Insight intends to file a proxy statement and other relevant materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION, STOCKHOLDERS OF DIGITAL INSIGHT ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT, WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE, AND THE OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS FILED BY DIGITAL INSIGHT WITH THE SEC BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. The proxy statement and other relevant materials, when available, and any other documents filed by Digital Insight with the SEC, may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, stockholders of Digital Insight may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by contacting Digital Insight's Investor Relations at 26025 Mureau Road, Calabasas, California 91302, Telephone: (818) 878-6615. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Digital Insight with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E. Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Digital Insight and its executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Digital Insight stockholders in favor of the proposed transaction. Certain executive officers and directors of Digital Insight have interests in the transaction that may differ from the interests of stockholders generally, including without limitation acceleration of vesting of stock options, benefits conferred under retention, severance and change in control arrangements, and continuation of director and officer insurance and indemnification. These interests will be described in the proxy statement when it becomes available.
 
In addition, Intuit and its executive officers and directors may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Digital Insight's stockholders in favor of the approval of the proposed transaction. Information concerning Intuit's directors and executive officers is set forth in Intuit's proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on November 3, 2006, and annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September 15, 2006. These documents are available free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or by going to Intuit's Investor Relations Website at .
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors


