FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20060629164808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
The information in this report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
On June 29, 2006, Intuit Inc. issued a press release related to the Company's historical stock option practices. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

 
Exhibit 99.01
 On June 26, 2006, Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) received a subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Northern District of California requesting documents related to the company's historical stock option practices. It is our belief that similar subpoenas have been served on many of the companies named in a recent report from the Center for Financial Research and Analysis (CFRA). As disclosed on June 9, 2006, Intuit received an informal request from the Securities and Exchange Commission for information on historical stock option practices.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.,  June 29, 2006
          We will fully cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's office.
          As also previously disclosed, in May 2006 when we first learned of the CFRA report, Intuit's Board of Directors initiated a voluntary independent review of our historical stock option grant activities and related accounting treatment. This ongoing review is being conducted by independent members of the board, independent legal counsel and accountants.
 
Intuit Issues Update on Stock Options Page 2
About Intuit Inc.
          Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small- and mid-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants.
          Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of more than $2 billion in its fiscal year 2005. The company has nearly 7,000 employees with major offices in 13 states across the U.S., and offices in Canada and the United Kingdom. More information can be found at .
www.Intuit.com
Intuit and the Intuit logo are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.


