FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20060817161553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors, Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On August 15, 2006, Diane Greene was named to the Board of Directors of Intuit Inc. ("Intuit") and the number of directors was increased from nine to ten members. Ms. Greene will serve as a member of Intuit's Audit Committee. A copy of the press release announcing Ms. Greene's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) announced the appointment of Diane Greene, co-founder and president of VMware, executive vice president and officer of EMC Corporation, to its Board of Directors, effective Aug. 15, 2006. Greene's appointment to a new position on the Board builds on the strength of the team and brings the number of members of Intuit's board to ten.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 17, 2006 
     Greene, 51, joined EMC Corporation through the acquisition of VMware in January 2004. VMware operates as an independent subsidiary and is the global leader in software for virtualized desktops, servers, storage and networking. Under Greene's leadership for the past eight years, VMware created the market for mainstream virtualization and definitively leads the virtualization software industry today. VMware has a $630 million annualized run-rate; the company's last quarter's year-over-year growth was 73 percent.
     "Diane Greene is a stand-out technologist with an outstanding business track record. Her abilities and insights will be of great value to our board," said Intuit Chairman Bill Campbell. "Her pragmatic, hands-on executive style combined with her entrepreneurial approach to development will help Intuit stay at the forefront of its customer driven focus on innovation. In addition, her deep technical skills, her attention to strategy and her intense focus on partnerships will help Intuit as it continues to broaden its business strategy."
     Before co-founding and leading VMware, Greene held technical leadership positions at Silicon Graphics, Tandem, and Sybase and was chief executive officer of VXtreme. Greene's degrees include mechanical engineering, naval architecture and computer science from the University of Vermont, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of California Berkeley, respectively.
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants.
 
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of more than $2 billion in its fiscal year 2005. The company has nearly 7,000 employees with major offices in 13 states across the United States, and offices in Canada and the United Kingdom. More information can be found at
www.intuit.com


