FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20071005153044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors, Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     In connection with the appointment of Brad D. Smith as Intuit's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2008, Intuit has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Smith dated October 1, 2007. Mr. Smith will continue in his role as Senior Vice President of Intuit's Small Business Division until he transitions to the role of President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2008 (the "Commencement Date"). The material terms of our agreement with Mr. Smith are described below.
     Salary and Bonus. Mr. Smith will be paid an annual base salary of $800,000. Mr. Smith is also eligible to receive a target annual bonus of 120% of his base salary in accordance with the terms of Intuit's Senior Executive Incentive Plan. Mr. Smith's salary increase became effective on October 1, 2007.
     Nonqualified Stock Option. Mr. Smith will be granted a nonqualified stock option to purchase 260,000 shares of Intuit common stock on the seventh business day of February 2008. The exercise price per share will be equal to the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant and will vest over five years, with 50% of the option shares vesting on the third anniversary of the Commencement Date and the remaining 50% of the option shares vesting on the fifth anniversary of the Commencement Date. The option shares will be subject to the terms of the Intuit Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan.
     Restricted Stock Units. Mr. Smith will be granted 130,000 restricted stock units of Intuit common stock on the seventh business day of February 2008. The restricted stock units will vest and become issuable to Mr. Smith over four years, with 50% of the restricted stock units vesting on the second anniversary of the Commencement Date and the remaining 50% of the restricted stock units vesting on the fourth anniversary of the Commencement Date. The restricted stock units will be subject to the terms of the Intuit Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan.
     Separation Benefits. Under certain circumstances related to the termination of Mr. Smith's employment, and conditioned upon Mr. Smith's execution of a release and waiver of claims, Mr. Smith will also be entitled to receive certain severance benefits. In the event of Mr. Smith's termination following a change in control of Intuit, his involuntary termination or termination without cause, all as defined in Mr. Smith's employment agreement, Mr. Smith will be entitled to (i) a single lump sum severance payment equal to 12 months of his then current annual base salary and 100% of his target bonus for the then current fiscal year; and (ii) immediate pro-rata acceleration of the vesting and exercisability of his promotion stock option and immediate pro-rata vesting and issuance of his promotion restricted stock units. The pro rata acceleration of Mr. Smith's promotion stock option and restricted stock units will be calculated as described in Mr. Smith's employment agreement.
     Other Benefits. Mr. Smith shall also be eligible for certain other benefits, as described in his employment agreement, including reimbursement for a specified amount of his personal financial and legal assistance in 2007 and 2008.
     The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to Mr. Smith's employment agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURE
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
P.O. Box 7850 Mountain View CA 94039-7850
October 1, 2007
Brad D. Smith
Dear Brad:
On behalf of Intuit Inc. ("" or the ""), congratulations on your promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer. We look forward to your continued leadership.
Intuit
Company
The terms of your employment as a result of your promotion are as follows:
 
 
 
(a) "" means (i) a reduction in your title or a material reduction in your duties or responsibilities that is inconsistent with your position as President and Chief Executive Officer such that you no longer report directly to the Board, without your prior written consent; (ii) any reduction in your base annual salary or target bonus opportunity (other than in connection with a general decrease in the salary or target bonuses for all officers of Intuit) without your prior consent; (iii) a material breach by Intuit of any of its obligations hereunder after you provide Intuit with written notice within a reasonable period of time following such breach and a reasonable opportunity to cure of not less than 30 days; (iv) failure of any successor to assume this agreement; or (v) a requirement by Intuit, without your prior written consent, that you relocate your principal office to a facility more than 50 miles from Intuit's current headquarters;
Good Reason
(b) "" means (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of your duties to Intuit (other than as a result of a disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in substantial and material damage to Intuit, after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board which specifically identifies the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties and you have been provided with a reasonable opportunity of not less than 30 days to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to Intuit; or (iii) conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude causing material harm to the business and affairs of Intuit. No act or failure to act by you shall be considered
Cause
 
"willful" if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interests of Intuit.
(c) "" means the effective date upon which (i) any person or entity becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Intuit representing fifty (50%) percent of the total voting power of all its then outstanding voting securities, (ii) a merger or consolidation of Intuit in which its outstanding voting securities immediately prior to the merger or consolidation do not represent, or are not converted into securities that represent, a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting securities of the surviving entity immediately after the merger or consolidation, (iii) a sale of substantially all of the assets of Intuit or a liquidation or dissolution of Intuit, or (iv) individuals who, as of the Promotion Date, constitute the Board of Directors (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided that any individual who becomes a director of Intuit subsequent to the Promotion Date, whose election, or nomination for election by Intuit stockholders, was approved by the vote of at least a majority of the directors then in office shall be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board.
Change in Control
Incumbent Board
 
 
 
          Please indicate your acceptance of the terms of this agreement by signing in the place indicated below.
 
To ensure the rapid and economical resolution of disputes that may arise in connection with your employment with Company, you and Company agree that any and all disputes, claims, or causes of action, in law or equity, arising from or relating to your employment, or the termination of your employment, will be resolved, to the fullest extent permitted by law by final, binding and confidential arbitration in San Francisco, California conducted by the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services/Endispute, Inc. ("JAMS"), or its successors, under the then current rules of JAMS for employment disputes; provided that:
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to prevent either you or Company from obtaining injunctive relief in court to prevent irreparable harm pending the conclusion of any such arbitration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you and Company each have the right to resolve any issue or dispute arising under the Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement by Court action instead of arbitration.
Arbitrable claims do not include, and this Agreement does not apply to or otherwise restrict, administrative claims you may bring before any government agency where, as a matter of law, the parties may not restrict your ability to file such claims (including the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the National Labor Relations Board). Otherwise, it is agreed that arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for administrative claims.


