FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20070207123934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On February 6, 2007, pursuant to a merger agreement dated November 29, 2006 (the "Merger Agreement") by and among Intuit Inc. (the "Company"), Digital Insight Corporation ("Digital Insight") and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), Merger Sub merged with and into Digital Insight, which resulted in Digital Insight becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Company paid a cash amount of $39.00 per share for each outstanding share of Digital Insight common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.33 billion including the value of assumed Digital Insight stock options. At the effective time of the Merger, the Company assumed outstanding Digital Insight stock options, which were converted into options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1.47 million shares of the Company's common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $21.36 per share, based on the conversion ratio set forth in the Merger Agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement (including the description of the consideration paid in connection with the Merger) is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 2.01 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     On January 31, 2007, Intuit entered into a Bridge Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among Intuit, the Lenders parties thereto (the "Lenders"), Chase Lincoln First Commercial Corporation, as syndication agent, and Citicorp North America, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $1 billion unsecured credit facility (the "Facility") that will expire on February 5, 2008. On February 6, 2007, Intuit borrowed the full $1 billion available under the Facility to finance, in part, Intuit's acquisition of Digital Insight.
     Intuit is required to prepay loans under the Credit Agreement with the proceeds of any issuance by Intuit or its subsidiaries of equity securities, or the incurrence by Intuit or its subsidiaries of debt for borrowed money, subject to certain exceptions. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the Lenders may declare the outstanding advances and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable.
     For additional information regarding the Credit Agreement, see Item 2.03 to the Form 8-K filed by Intuit on February 1, 2007. A copy of the Credit Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.01 to that Form 8-K.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     Effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the Special Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. Jeffrey E. Stiefler as a Senior Vice President of the Company and President of the Company's Financial Institutions Division. Under the terms of an employment offer letter, Mr. Stiefler's starting annual salary will be $600,000, and he will be eligible to receive a pro-rated bonus equal to 75% of his base salary for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007, based on achievements by the Company and Mr. Stiefler's individual performance, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2007 Intuit Performance Incentive Plan.
     Pursuant to the terms of his offer letter, Mr. Stiefler will also be granted an option to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock, which will vest as to 100% of the shares on the second anniversary of the closing date of the Merger, provided that he remains employed by the Company on that date. If Mr. Stiefler is terminated without "cause" or he resigns by reason of an "involuntary termination" (as each term is defined in his offer letter) within twelve months following the closing date of the Merger, and he executes a release in favor of the Company, then the number of option shares equal to 1/24 of the total number of option shares multiplied by the number of full months that Mr. Stiefler remained employed since the closing date of the Merger will immediately vest upon such termination or resignation.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the terms of his offer letter, Mr. Stiefler will also be granted 100,000 performance-based restricted stock units. These restricted stock units will vest on the thirty-month anniversary of the closing date of the Merger if the Company determines that certain performance goals have been satisfied and Mr. Stiefler is employed by the Company on such date. If Mr. Stiefler's employment is terminated without "cause" or if he resigns by reason of an "involuntary termination" (as each term is defined in his offer letter), and Mr. Stiefler executes a release in favor of the Company, then the number of stock units equal to 1/30 of the total number of stock units multiplied by the number of full months Mr. Stiefler remained employed following the closing date of the Merger will immediately vest upon such termination or resignation.
     Pursuant to the terms of Digital Insight's Change in Control Severance Plan and the offer letter, conditioned upon execution of a release related to his prior employment with Digital Insight, Mr. Stiefler also received full acceleration of the vesting and exercisability of all his unvested Digital Insight options (375,564 shares) and unvested Digital Insight restricted stock (67,083 shares) and received a lump sum cash payment of $1,777,661.
     Mr. Stiefler's offer letter provides that he is entitled to a tax gross-up on any excise taxes which he may be required to pay as a result of any excess parachute payments resulting from payments by Digital Insight or the Company, subject to the restrictions set forth in the offer letter.
     If Mr. Stiefler's employment is terminated other than for "cause" or he resigns due to an "involuntary termination" (as each term is defined in his offer letter), he will be entitled to receive three months of professional outplacement services from the date his employment terminates.
     Mr. Stiefler has also executed a Non-Competition Agreement as a condition of employment with the Company. The Non-Competition Agreement subjects Mr. Stiefler to a three-year non-competition period that commences on the closing date of the Merger and a one-year non-solicitation restriction period from the date of termination of his employment with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Combined Financial Information.
     The pro forma combined financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment no later than 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
     PO Box 7850      Mountain View, CA 94039-7850
VIA HAND DELIVERY
November 29, 2006
Jeffrey Stiefler
          Re:      
Intuit Employment Offer Letter
Dear Jeff,
On behalf of the Intuit team, it is with great pleasure that I extend to you this formal offer of employment to join Intuit as Senior Vice President (Financial Institutions Business Division President) effective upon the closing of Intuit's acquisition of Digital Insight Corporation (the ""). (Generally, this is referred to herein as the "".) In this new role, you will report to the Chief Executive Officer of Intuit. We are excited about the new opportunities ahead and look forward to having you join our team.
Company
Transaction
The following is a summary of the terms and conditions of this offer, which is contingent upon the closing of the Transaction. The terms described herein will apply to your future employment with Intuit.
START DATE
Your start date will be the date on which Intuit's acquisition of the Company closes (the "").
Closing Date
BASE COMPENSATION
Your starting annual salary will be $600,000 USD (less applicable withholdings) payable in bi-weekly installments in accordance with Intuit's standard payroll practices, pending your continued employment.
INCENTIVE CASH COMPENSATION
As a regular Intuit employee, you will be eligible to participate in Intuit's Performance Incentive Plan (""), a cash incentive compensation program. Your target percentage under the IPI for Intuit's 2007 fiscal year ending July 31, 2007 will be 75% of your base salary. Your IPI award will be tied to the achievements of Intuit and your individual performance. The actual amount of your IPI award, if any, will be determined in accordance with the terms and conditions outlined in the IPI plan document. Payouts under the IPI are made to eligible individuals who are employed by Intuit at the time of the payout. Any IPI bonus payable to you for the 2007 fiscal year will be prorated based on your period of service with Intuit during this fiscal year.
IPI
 
INTUIT EQUITY COMPENSATION
Stock Options
Subject to approval by Intuit's Compensation and Organization Development Committee or its designee, you will be granted an option (the "") to purchase 100,000 shares of Intuit's common stock (the ""). The Option will be granted to you in the month following the Closing Date  Intuit generally grants stock options to its newly hired employees on the seventh business day of the month following the employee's start date. Your Option and the issuance of the underlying Option Shares will be subject to the terms and conditions of your Stock Option Agreement and the Intuit Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. Provided you remain continuously employed by Intuit, the Option will become vested as to 100% of the Option Shares on the second (2) anniversary of the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (i) your employment is terminated by Intuit without "" or you terminate your employment with Intuit by reason of "" (both as defined below), in either case, within twelve (12) months following the Closing Date and (ii) you deliver to Intuit a signed settlement agreement and general release in the form attached hereto as (the "") and satisfy all conditions to make the Release effective, then such number of Option Shares equal to (x) 1/24 of the total number of Option Shares multiplied by (y) the number of full months since the Closing Date that you remained continuously employed by Intuit prior to your date of employment termination shall immediately vest.
Option
Option Shares
nd
Cause
Involuntary Termination
Exhibit A
Release
Restricted Stock Units
Subject to approval by Intuit's Compensation and Organization Development Committee or its designee, you will be granted 100,000 restricted stock units (referred to as "" or ""). These Stock Units will be granted to you in the month following the Closing Date  and, as is the case with stock options, Intuit generally grants Stock Units to its newly hired employees on the seventh business day of the month following the employee's start date. Your Stock Units and the issuance of the underlying Intuit Common Stock will be subject to the terms and conditions of your Stock Unit Agreement and the Intuit Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. Intuit shall issue to you the shares underlying a Stock Unit within ninety (90) days following the date on which such Stock Unit vests.
Stock Units
SUs
The Stock Units will be subject to performance-based vesting as follows: you will vest in all of your Stock Units on the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Closing Date if (a) Intuit has determined in its sole discretion that on or before the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Closing Date you have satisfied the performance goals established by Intuit and communicated to and agreed upon by you prior to the first (1st) anniversary of the Closing Date and (b) you remain continuously employed by Intuit through the thirty (30) month anniversary of the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (i) your employment is terminated by Intuit without Cause or you terminate your employment with Intuit by reason of Involuntary Termination (both as defined below) and (ii) you deliver to Intuit the Release and satisfy all conditions to make the Release effective, then such number of SUs equal to (x) 1/30 of the total number of SUs multiplied by (y) the number of full months since the Closing Date that you remained continuously employed by Intuit prior to your date of employment termination shall immediately vest.
 
DEFINITIONS
"" means: (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of your duties to Intuit (other than as a result of a disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in substantial and material damage to Intuit, after a demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by Intuit, which specifically identifies the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties and you have been provided with a reasonable opportunity to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to Intuit; or (iii) conviction of, or, plea of nolo contendre to, a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude causing material harm to the business and affairs of Intuit. No act or failure to act by you shall be considered "willful" if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interests of Intuit.
Cause
"" means the termination of your employment with Intuit, without Cause, on account of your resignation within sixty (60) days after the occurrence any of the following events without your consent: (i) a material reduction in your duties that is inconsistent with your position with Intuit immediately following the Closing Date; (ii) any reduction in your base annual salary or target annual bonus (other than in connection with a general decrease in the salary or target bonuses for all officers of Intuit); or (iii) a requirement by Intuit that you relocate your principal office to a facility more than fifty (50) miles from your principal office on the Closing Date; provided however, that with regard to (i) through (iii) you must provide Intuit with written notice of its obligations hereunder and reasonable opportunity to cure.
Involuntary Termination
SATISFACTION OF COMPANY CHANGE IN CONTROL AND SEVERANCE RIGHTS
The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that you are entitled to (a) 100% accelerated vesting or exercisability with respect to each stock option, restricted share award or other equity award granted to you by the Company prior to the date hereof as listed on the attached (the "") and (b) $1,777,661 (the ""); provided that in both cases you deliver to Intuit a signed release relating to your prior employment with the Company (the ""), in the form attached hereto as , and satisfy all conditions to make the Prior Employment Release effective. The Company Acceleration will occur on the Closing Date. You will have no right to accelerated vesting or exercisability with respect to any other stock option, restricted share award or other equity award that was granted by the Company or that is granted by Intuit. The Company Severance will be payable in a lump sum immediately prior to the Closing Date subject to the Prior Employment Release being effective. You will have no further right to any further cash payments or other termination benefits from the Company or Intuit, and Intuit and the Company shall have no further obligations with respect to the Company Acceleration or the Company Severance or any other severance except as described in this agreement.
Exhibit B
Company Acceleration
Company Severance
Prior Employment Release
Exhibit C
By signing below, you expressly acknowledge and agree that neither the consummation of the Transaction, nor any stockholder approval of the Transaction, nor your employment with Intuit pursuant to the terms of this offer letter shall constitute or provide grounds for, as applicable, a termination without "cause" or your resignation for "good reason" as set forth in any agreement between you and the Company or any other grounds for termination as set forth in any agreement between you and the Company.
 
OUTPLACEMENT SERVICES FROM INTUIT
If your employment is terminated by Intuit without Cause or you terminate your employment with Intuit by reason of Involuntary Termination (both as defined above), then, in addition to the pro rata entitlement to vesting of the Option Shares and the SUs as described above, you shall be entitled to professional outplacement services for a period of up to three (3) months after the date of your employment termination.
401(K)
Intuit has a comprehensive benefits package that includes the Intuit Inc. 401(k) Plan. Intuit will automatically withhold four percent (4%) from your wages each payroll period beginning with the first payroll period following thirty (30) days after your start date and remit it as a salary deferral contribution to the 401(k) Plan. These funds will automatically be invested in an appropriate Fidelity Freedom Fund. Of course, you may elect at any time, to contribute more or less of your wagesor not at allto the 401(k) Plan. In addition, you are encouraged to select the investment funds that meet your personal financial objectives. At New Hire Orientation, you will receive more information about the entire Intuit benefits package, including how to opt-out entirely from participation in the 401(k) Plan and how to change your investment funds or deferral percentage of participation. By signing below, you agree to this withholding from your wages until you take express action otherwise.
PERFORMANCE/SALARY REVIEWS
Performance and salary reviews are conducted at least once per fiscal year in August.
BACKGROUND CHECK
This offer, and your employment, is contingent on Intuit's verification of background information, even if you should begin employment before completion of Intuit's background check.
EMPLOYEE INVENTION ASSIGNMENT AND CONFIDENTIALTY AGREEMENT
You will execute and abide by Intuit's Digital Insight Key Executive Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement, attached hereto as , as a condition of employment.
Exhibit D
NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT
You will execute and abide by the Non-Competition Agreement, attached hereto as , as a condition of employment and in consideration of the substantial payment you will receive upon Intuit's purchase of your stock interest in the Company.
Exhibit E
WORK AUTHORIZATION
Federal law requires Intuit to document an employee's authorization to work in the United States. To comply, Intuit must have a completed Form I-9 for you within three business days of your start date. You agree to provide Intuit with documentation required by the Form I-9 to confirm you are authorized to work in the United States. You understand and agree that if you do not comply with this requirement by close of business on the third business day following your start date, you will be placed on unpaid leave for up to five days to comply. You further understand and agree that failure to provide the necessary documentation by the end of the leave of absence period will result in termination of employment.
 
BRIDGING OF BENEFITS
Consistent with our Benefits Bridging Policy, Intuit will bridge the following benefits: vacation accrual and 401(k) employer match vesting schedule. Your service with the Company prior to the Closing Date will be counted as service for purposes of these benefits.
PAID VACATION
You will accrue vacation in accordance with Intuit's vacation policy; provided, however, that as of your first day of employment with Intuit, you will be deemed to have accrued 10 days of vacation time.
SICK DAYS
You will be granted 40 hours each calendar year to be used in the event of your illness in accordance with Intuit's Sick Leave Policy. Your sick leave will accrue at the rate of 1.54 hours per pay period (bi-weekly); provided, however, that as of your first day of employment with Intuit, you will be deemed to have accrued 5 days of sick leave time.
INSURANCE
You will be eligible for group health insurance (which includes medical, dental and vision), effective as of the Closing Date.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This offer and your employment are subject to certain terms and conditions that are outlined below. You agree that there were no promises or commitments made to you regarding your employment with Intuit except as set forth in this letter.
This letter confirms our understanding that you are not subject to any employment agreement that would preclude Intuit from offering this position to you or preclude you from joining Intuit in the position described above. This also confirms that you will not be asked to disclose to Intuit any secrets or proprietary information from your prior places of employment (excluding the Company).
In accepting this offer, you agree that your employment at Intuit is at the mutual consent of you and Intuit, and is at-will in nature and can be terminated at anytime for any reason or no reason by yourself or by Intuit. This at-will employment relationship can only be modified in a writing signed by Intuit's Senior Vice President of Human Resources.
All amounts payable pursuant to this agreement shall be subject to any required withholding of taxes and shall be paid without interest.
Except as provided for herein, this agreement supersedes and replaces (i) any prior oral or written agreements between you and Intuit and (ii) any prior oral or written agreements between you, Intuit or the Company relating to the subject matter hereof, including, but not limited to, any and all prior employment or compensation related agreements, the following:
excluding
     (a) the Company's stock option plans and awards and agreements granted pursuant to such plans, except as modified in this agreement;
 
     (b) any indemnification agreement(s) between you and the Company in effect immediately prior to the Closing Date; and
     (c) your Section 280G of the Code and Section 4999 of the Code gross-up rights under the Digital Insight Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan, which for this purpose will cover all payments by the Company or Intuit; provided, however that this shall only apply if (i) it is determined by Intuit that you are in receipt of an excess parachute payment (as defined in Section 280G of the Code), or (ii) it is determined by Intuit that you are not in receipt of an excess parachute payment, but subsequently (x) you provide notice to Intuit in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that you are in receipt of an excess parachute payment or (y) Intuit receives notice from the Internal Revenue Service that it has paid to you an excess parachute payment, and, in either case, it is determined that you are required to pay an excise tax on such excess parachute payment. If Intuit determines to contest a claim by the Internal Revenue Service as to your receipt of an excess parachute payment then you shall:
     (i) give Intuit any information reasonably requested by Intuit relating to such claim;
     (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as Intuit shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by Intuit; and
     (iii) permit Intuit to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
provided, however, that Intuit shall bear and pay all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest. Without limiting the foregoing provisions, Intuit shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest. In addition, irrespective of whether Intuit contests the claim, Intuit shall indemnify you and hold you harmless from, on an after-tax basis, any excise tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) and payment of all related costs and expenses.
Upon the Closing Date, this agreement; Intuit's Digital Insight Key Executive Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement and the Non-Competition Agreement will be the entire agreement relating to your employment with the Intuit. In addition, any confidential/proprietary/trade secrets information and inventions agreement(s) between you and Company, or any predecessor thereto, will remain in effect as it pertains to subject matters existing prior to the Closing Date.
In this letter your employer is referred to as Intuit, however, you may be employed by Intuit itself or one of its subsidiaries. Whether or not you are employed by Intuit or one of its subsidiaries, the reporting structure, salary, bonus, option and benefit terms discussed in this letter will apply.
This agreement will be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California. Each of the provisions of this agreement is severable from the others, and if any provision hereof will be to any extent unenforceable, it and the other provisions will continue to
 
be enforceable to the full extent allowable, as if such offending provision had not been part of this agreement.
Please review these terms to make sure they are consistent with your understanding. If so, please sign and date both copies of this letter. The original of this letter is for your records. Please return the copy to Jim Grenier, Vice President, Human Resources  Rewards & Workforce Solutions, at 2600 Casey Avenue, Mountain View, CA 94043.
 
If you have any questions about this offer, please contact Jim at (650) 944-3216.
We look forward to you joining the Intuit team.
Sincerely,
/s/ STEPHEN M. BENNETT
Steve M. Bennett President & Chief Executive Officer
 
     PO Box 7850, MS 2550      Mountain View, CA 94039-7850
DATE
EMPLOYEE NAME ADDRESS ADDRESS
Re:
Separation Terms and General Release Agreement
Dear NAME:
This letter confirms the terms of your separation from the employment of Intuit Inc. and consideration in exchange for your waiver and general release of claims in favor of Intuit Inc. and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns (collectively, the "" or "").
Company
Intuit
 
 
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF
 
EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
 
 
If this Agreement accurately sets forth the terms of your separation from the Company and if you voluntarily agree to accept the terms of the severance package offered please sign below no earlier than your Termination Date and return it to Paula Vasquez.
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS A GENERAL
RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
 
 
THIS GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS ("") by Jeff Stiefler ("") is entered into accordance with the Employment Offer Letter between Executive and Intuit, Inc., a Delaware corporation dated November 29, 2006 (the ""). This Release confirms Executive's waiver and general release of claims in favor of Digital Insight Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, predecessors, successors, affiliated companies and assigns (collectively, "" or the "") and Intuit, Inc., a Delaware corporation and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, predecessors, successors, affiliated companies and assigns (collectively, ""). Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Release shall have the same defined meanings in the Intuit Offer Letter.
Release
Executive
Intuit Offer Letter
Digital Insight
Company
Intuit
 
 
 
 
 
If you voluntarily agree to accept the terms of this Release offered please sign below and return this Release with your Intuit Offer Letter.
REVIEWED, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
EXECUTIVE:
Jeff Stiefler
Signature
                     
                    
                    
                     
Date:
                    
                    
                    
 
     1. I understand that Intuit Inc. (the "") is engaged in a continuous program of research, development, production and marketing in connection with its business and that it is critical for the Company to preserve and protect its Proprietary Information (as defined below), its rights in Company Inventions (as defined below) and in all related worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, mask works, trademarks, trades secrets and other intellectual property rights (""). Accordingly, I am entering into this agreement ("") as a condition of my employment with the Company, whether or not I am expected to create inventions of value for the Company.
Company
Intellectual Property Rights
Agreement
     2. I understand that during the course of my employment with the Company it is likely I will gain access to information of a confidential or secret nature that may be disclosed to me by the Company or a third party that relates to the business of the Company or to the business of any parent, subsidiary, affiliate, acquired entity, customer or supplier of the Company or any other party with whom the Company agrees to hold information of such party in confidence (""). Proprietary Information includes, but is not limited to, Company Inventions (as defined below), marketing plans, product plans, business strategies, financial information, forecasts, personnel information, customer lists, supplier lists, and trade secrets. I understand that Proprietary Information does not include any of the items just listed which has become publicly known and made generally available through no wrongful act of mine or of others who were under confidentiality obligations as to the publicized item or items involved.
Proprietary Information
     3. I agree that, at all times, both during my employment and after I leave the Company, I will keep and hold any Proprietary Information in strict confidence and trust, and I will not use or disclose any Proprietary Information without first receiving the Company's express written consent, except as may be necessary to perform my duties as an employee of the Company for the benefit of the Company and except if compelled by government or court order to do so. Upon leaving the Company, I will promptly give to the Company all documents, materials or property in my possession related to the Company. I will not take with me any property or copies of my work or Company related documents and materials that I have received or used, including Proprietary Information.
     4. During the period of my employment, I agree to promptly disclose in confidence to the Company all inventions, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, compositions of matter, computer software programs, databases, mask works and trade secrets that I conceive or first reduce to practice or create, either alone or jointly with others, whether or not in the course of my employment, and whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectible as trade secrets or other Intellectual Property Rights ("").
Inventions
     5. I understand that, under the copyright laws, any copyrightable works prepared by me within the scope of my employment are "works for hire." Consequently, the Company will be considered the author and owner of such works.
 
     6. I agree that all Inventions that (a) are developed using equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secrets of the Company, (b) result from work performed by me for the Company, or (c) relate to the Company's business or current or anticipated research and development (""), will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company. I agree to assign, and do hereby assign, to the Company any and all rights that I may have in any such Company Inventions and in any Intellectual Property Rights therein or related thereto. Attached hereto as is a list describing all inventions, original works of authorship, developments and trade secrets which were made by me (including patents, original works of authorship and developments I worked on with a prior employer) prior to the date of this Agreement, which belong to me (or belong to me and third parties) and which are not assigned to the Company (""). If disclosure of any Prior Inventions would cause me to violate any prior confidentiality agreement, I understand that I am not to list such Prior Inventions in but should only disclose a cursory name for each such invention, the owners of that invention and why full disclosure has not been made. If no such list is attached, it is because there are no Prior Inventions. I acknowledge and agree that if I use any of my Prior Inventions in the scope of my employment, or include them in any product or service of the Company, I hereby grant to the Company a perpetual, irrevocable, nonexclusive, world-wide, royalty-free license to use, disclose, make, have made, sell, import, copy, distribute, modify and create works based on, perform or display such Prior Inventions and to sublicense third parties with the same rights. I will not use or disclose any Prior Inventions in the scope of my employment at the Company if such use or disclosure would cause me to violate any obligations to any third party.
Company Inventions
Exhibit A
Prior Inventions
Exhibit A
     7. I also waive and agree never to assert any "" I might have in or with respect to any Company Invention even after I leave the Company. "Moral Rights" means any right to claim authorship of any Company Invention, to object to or prevent modification or destruction of any Company Invention, or to withdraw from circulation or to control the publication or distribution of any Company Invention, and any similar right existing under the judicial or statutory law of any country or treaty.
Moral Rights
     8. I agree to assist the Company in every proper way to obtain and enforce the Intellectual Property Rights and other legal protections for the Company Inventions in any and all countries. I will sign documents that the Company may reasonably request for use in obtaining and enforcing such protection. My obligations under this paragraph will continue even after I leave the Company, provided the Company will reimburse me at a reasonable rate after I leave the Company for time or expenses actually spent by me on its behalf. I appoint the Secretary of the Company as my attorney-in-fact to execute documents on my behalf for the purposes set forth in this paragraph.
     9. I understand that my employment with the Company requires my undivided attention and effort. As a result, during my employment, I will not, without the company's express written consent, engage in any other employment or business that (i) directly competes with the current or future business of the Company; (ii) uses any Company information, equipment, supplies, facilities or materials; or (iii) otherwise conflicts with the Company's business interest and causes a disruption of its operations.
 
     10. I understand that during and after the termination of my employment with Company, I will not directly or indirectly solicit or otherwise take away customers or suppliers of the Company if, in so doing, I access, use or disclose any Proprietary Information belonging to the Company. I acknowledge and agree that the names and addresses of the Company's customers and suppliers, and all other confidential information related to them, including but not limited to their buying and selling habits and special needs, that was first obtained by, or first disclosed to me during my employment with the Company or Digital Insight Corporation, constitute trade secrets of the Company.
     11. During my employment with the Company and for a period of one (1) year thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly solicit away employees or consultants of the Company for my own benefit or for the benefit of any other person or entity.
     12. I hereby authorize the Company to use, reuse, and grant others the right to use and reuse, both during and after my employment, my name, photograph, likeness (including caricature), voice, and biographical information, and any reproduction or simulation thereof, in any form of media or technology now known or hereafter developed (including, but not limited to, film, video and digital or other electronic media) in connection with the Company's business, including any promotion, marketing or advertising of the Company or its products or services which was obtained by the Company during my employment with the Company.
     13. I represent that my performance of all the terms of this Agreement and my responsibilities as an employee of the Company will not breach any invention assignment, proprietary information, nonsolicitation, noncompetition, or other agreement or obligation with any former employer or other party. I also represent that I will not bring with me to the Company or use in the performance of my responsibilities for the Company any property or materials or trade secrets of a former employer or third party that are not generally available to the public or would not have been legally transferred to the Company. In the event I leave the Company, I hereby grant consent to notification by the Company to my new employer about my rights and obligations under this Agreement.
     14. I understand that any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement by me will likely result in irreparable harm and the Company will be entitled to injunctive relief to enforce this Agreement and shall have the right to recover the reasonable attorney's fees and court costs expended in connection with any litigation instituted to enforce this Agreement.
     15. This Agreement will be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to or application of choice of law rules or principles. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is found by a court or other competent tribunal to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, then that provision will not be voided but enforced to the maximum extent allowed, and the remainder of the provision will remain in full force and effect. If such clause or provision cannot be so enforced, such provision shall be stricken from this Agreement and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforced as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable clause or provision had (to the extent not enforceable) never been contained in this Agreement.
 
     16. I have been notified and understand that the provisions of Sections 6 and 7 of this Agreement do not apply to any Company Inventions that qualify fully under the provisions of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, which states as follows:
ANY PROVISION IN AN EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WHICH PROVIDES THAT AN EMPLOYEE SHALL ASSIGN, OR OFFER TO ASSIGN, ANY OF HIS OR HER RIGHTS IN AN INVENTION TO HIS OR HER EMPLOYER SHALL NOT APPLY TO AN INVENTION THAT THE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPED ENTIRELY ON HIS OR HER OWN TIME WITHOUT USING THE EMPLOYER'S EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES, FACILITIES, OR TRADE SECRET INFORMATION EXCEPT FOR THOSE INVENTIONS THAT EITHER: (1) RELATE AT THE TIME OF CONCEPTION OR REDUCTION TO PRACTICE OF THE INVENTION TO THE EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS, OR ACTUALLY OR DEMONSTRABLY ANTICIPATED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT OF THE EMPLOYER, OR (2) RESULT FROM ANY WORK PERFORMED BY THE EMPLOYEE FOR THE EMPLOYER. TO THE EXTENT A PROVISION IN AN EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT PURPORTS TO REQUIRE AN EMPLOYEE TO ASSIGN AN INVENTION OTHERWISE EXCLUDED FROM BEING REQUIRED TO BE ASSIGNED UNDER CALIFORNIA LABOR CODE SECTION 2870(a), THE PROVISION IS AGAINST THE PUBLIC POLICY OF THIS STATE AND IS UNENFORCEABLE.
     17. This Agreement, the Non-Competition Agreement between me and the Company ("the Non-Competition Agreement") and any documents referred to herein, constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between or among the parties hereto with respect to the specific subject matter hereof. Should there be any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Non-Competition Agreement, I understand that those provisions most protective of the Company's interests will control.
     18. This Agreement may be amended only by a written agreement executed by each of the parties hereto. No amendment of or waiver of, or modification of any obligation under this Agreement will be enforceable unless set forth in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. Any amendment effected in accordance with this section will be binding upon all parties hereto and each of their respective successors and assigns. No delay or failure to require performance of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of that provision as to that or any other instance. No waiver granted under this Agreement as to any one provision herein shall constitute a subsequent waiver of such provision or of any other provision herein, nor shall it constitute the waiver of any performance other than the actual performance specifically waived.
     19. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement. No other party to this Agreement may assign, whether voluntarily or by operation of law, any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, except with the prior written consent of the Company.
 
     20. I understand that this Agreement does not constitute an employment contract or obligate the Company to employ me for any period of time. I understand that my employment with the Company is at will and may be terminated by the Company at any time and for any reason or no reason, with or without notice and with or without cause. I acknowledge that any statements or representations to the contrary are ineffective, unless put into a writing signed by the Company. I further acknowledge that my participation in any stock option or benefit program is not to be construed as any assurance of continuing employment for any particular period of time.
 
     21. This Agreement will be effective as of the first day of my employment by the Company, or upon disclosure of covered Company Proprietary Information should that disclosure occur prior to the first day of my employment, or upon the date of my signature below, whichever date occurs first.
Employee:
By:
/s/ JEFF STIEFLER               
Name: Jeff Stiefler
Date: 11/30/06
 
Signature of Employee:
/s/ JEFF STIEFLER               
Print Name of Employee: Jeff Stiefler
Date: 11/30/06
 
     This (this ""), dated November 29, 2006, is made by and between Jeff Stiefler (the "") and Intuit, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""). For purposes of this Agreement, "Acquiror" shall be deemed to include Acquiror and its wholly and majority-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries that operate the Business (as defined below) of the Company.
Non-Competition Agreement
Agreement
Shareholder
Acquiror
     Acquiror, Durango Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned acquisition subsidiary of Acquiror, and Digital Insight Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "") are parties to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated on or about November 29, 2006 (the ""), pursuant to which Acquiror will acquire the Company (the ""). Shareholder understands and agrees that he is a substantial shareholder of the Company and a key and significant member of either the management and/or the technical workforce of the Company and that he will receive substantial consideration as a result of Acquiror's purchase of Shareholder's stock interest in the Company. Shareholder is willing to enter into this Agreement as an inducement for Acquiror to consummate the Merger and to protect Acquiror's legitimate interests as a buyer of the stock and goodwill of the Company. Shareholder understands and acknowledges that the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Shareholder is a material inducement to the willingness of Acquiror to enter into the Merger Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Merger Agreement.
Company
Merger Agreement
Merger
     Acquiror and Shareholder both agree that, prior to the Merger, the Company's business included the design, development, manufacture, production, marketing and sales of products and services related to the Business (as defined below) throughout each of the fifty states of the United States and other parts of the world in which the Company conducted the Business (as defined in Section 1(d) hereof) (the ""). Acquiror represents and Shareholder understands that, following the Merger, Acquiror will continue conducting the Company's business in the Restrictive Territory.
Restrictive Territory
     , in consideration of the foregoing premises and for good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Shareholder, intending to be legally bound, agrees as follows:
Now, Therefore
     . During the Restrictive Period (as defined below), Shareholder agrees that Shareholder will not, as an employee, agent, consultant, advisor, independent contractor, general partner, officer, director, shareholder, investor, lender or guarantor of any corporation, partnership or other entity, or in any other capacity directly or indirectly:
1. 
Agreement Not to Compete
(a) Shareholder will not participate or engage in the Business in the Restrictive Territory.
 
(b) Shareholder will not render or provide any services related to the Business to any company or entity which involve or are related to the Business (including, without limitation, Checkfree Corporation, Online Resources Corporation, Open Solutions Inc., Metavante Corporation, Jack Henry & Associates, Inc., John H. Harland Company, Fidelity National Information Services, Fiserv Inc., S1 Corporation, Corillian Corporation, PayCycle, Inc., CashEdge, Inc., Microsoft Corporation), in the Restrictive Territory.
(c) Shareholder will not permit his name to be used in connection with a business which is competitive or substantially similar to the Business in the Restrictive Territory.
(d) The "" as referred to in this Agreement entails the design, development, manufacture, production, marketing, sale or servicing of any product, or the provision of any service, that directly relates to outsourced on-line banking applications and services to banks, credit unions and savings and loan associations (including, without limitation, outsourced software products hosed in data centers and delivered as "on demand" service offerings to financial institutions).
Business
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Shareholder may (i) own, directly or indirectly, solely as an investment, up to one percent (1%) of any class of "publicly traded securities" of any business that is competitive or substantially similar to the Business or (ii) work for a division, entity or subgroup of any of such companies that engages in the Business so long as such division, entity or subgroup does not engage in the Business. The term "publicly traded securities" shall mean securities that are traded on a national securities exchange or listed on any of the three tiers of the NASDAQ Stock Market.
For purposes of this Agreement, the restrictive period (referred to herein as the "") shall commence on the Closing Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement) of the Merger and shall continue until the third (3) anniversary of the Closing Date. In the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force or effect.
Restrictive Period
rd
     . During the term of Shareholder's employment and for one (1) year thereafter, Shareholder shall not encourage or solicit, directly or indirectly, any employee of the Company to leave the Acquiror for any reason or to accept employment with any other company. As part of this restriction, Shareholder shall not interview or provide any input to any third party regarding any such person during the period in question. However, this obligation shall not affect any responsibility Shareholder may have as an employee of the Acquiror with respect to the bona fide hiring and firing of Company personnel.
2. 
Non-Solicitation of Employees
     . Shareholder hereby acknowledges and agrees that:
3. 
Acknowledgment
(a) this Agreement is necessary for the protection of the legitimate business interests of Acquiror in acquiring the Company;
(b) the execution and delivery and continuation in force of this Agreement is a material inducement to the willingness of Acquiror to enter into the Merger Agreement;
 
(c) the scope of this Agreement in time, geography and types and limitations of activities restricted is reasonable;
(d) Shareholder has no intention of competing with the Business acquired by Acquiror within the area and the time limits set forth in this Agreement; and
(e) breach of this Agreement will be such that Acquiror will not have an adequate remedy at law because of the unique nature of the operations and the assets being conveyed to Acquiror.
     . Shareholder acknowledges and agrees that (a) the rights of Acquiror under this Agreement are of a specialized and unique character and that immediate and irreparable damage will result to Acquiror if Shareholder fails to or refuses to perform his obligations under this Agreement and (b) Acquiror may, in addition to any other remedies and damages available, seek an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any such failure or refusal. No single exercise of the foregoing remedies shall be deemed to exhaust Acquiror's right to such remedies, but the right to such remedies shall continue undiminished and may be exercised from time to time as often as Acquiror may elect. Shareholder represents and warrants that his expertise and capabilities are such that his obligations under this Agreement (and the enforcement thereof by injunction or otherwise) will not prevent him from earning a livelihood.
4. 
Remedy
     . If any provisions of this Agreement as applied to any part or to any circumstances shall be adjudged by a court to be invalid or unenforceable, the same shall in no way affect any other provision of this Agreement, the application of such provision in any other circumstances, or the validity or enforceability of this Agreement. Acquiror and Shareholder intend this Agreement to be enforced as written. If any provision, or part thereof, however, is held to be unenforceable because of the duration thereof or the area covered thereby, all parties agree that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the duration and/or area of such provision, and/or to delete specific words or phrases and in its reduced form such provision shall then be enforceable.
5. 
Severability
     . This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed by Acquiror's Senior Vice President of Human Resources, or his or her designee, and Shareholder.
6. 
Amendment
     . No waiver of any nature, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continued waiver of any breach of any other term or agreement contained in this Agreement.
7. 
Waiver
     . The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
8. 
Headings
     . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted and its performance shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without regard to conflicts of law principles of any jurisdiction.
9. 
Governing Law
 
     . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, between the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement (but does not in any way merge or supersede the Merger Agreement or any other agreement executed in connection with the Merger Agreement, including the Shareholder's employment agreement with Acquiror, if any).
10. 
Entire Agreement
 
     , Acquiror and Shareholder have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above written.
In Witness Whereof

 
Exhibit 10.02
Award No. GrantNumber
Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ("Award") pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock") set forth below. All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ("Agreement") that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan. This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference. This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan. If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply.
Name of Participant: Employee ID: Address: Number of Shares: Date of Grant: Vesting Date: August 6, 2009
1.      The performance targets, attached hereto on and which have been agreed upon by you (the "Performance Goals") must be achieved between February 6, 2007 and August 6, 2009 as determined and certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee (the "Committee") in its sole discretion in order for the vesting described below to commence. If the Committee determines that the Performance Goals were not met on or before August 6, 2009, this Award shall terminate upon the date of such determination.
Performance Goals to Begin Performance-Based Vesting:
Exhibit A
2.     : If the above Performance Goals are met, this Award will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on the Vesting Date set forth above, provided you have not Terminated prior to that date.
Vesting Once Performance Factor Goals Are Met
 
This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated by reference) and the Offer Letter where specifically referenced herein, constitute the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and
 
supersede all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award. Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives). All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company at its address set forth in this Agreement, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.
The Company has signed this Award Agreement effective as the Date of Grant.
 
Exhibit A
Performance Goals:


