FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20070517160813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On May 17, 2007, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2007 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.01
 Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced its third-quarter 2007 revenue increased 21 percent over the year-ago quarter to $1.15 billion. This marks the first time Intuit revenue has exceeded $1 billion in a quarter.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  May 17, 2007
     Growth was driven by a strong tax season, excellent performance in QuickBooks and the acquisition of Digital Insight to create a Financial Institutions segment. Revenue for the first nine months of the fiscal year grew 14 percent.
     "We had great results from all of our businesses this quarter," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "Our two biggest growth engines, Tax and Small Business, continue to perform very well and our newest growth engine, Financial Institutions, is also making a significant contribution. We're on track for another year of double-digit revenue and earnings growth."
Third-Quarter 2007 Financial Highlights
     Intuit posted GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income of $367 million in the quarter compared to $299 million in the third quarter of 2006. This represents diluted net income per share of $1.04 compared to diluted net income per share of $0.84 in the year-ago quarter. Intuit posted non-GAAP net income of $399 million, or $1.13 per share versus $318 million, or $0.89 per share in the third quarter of 2006.
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 2
Third-Quarter 2007 Business Segment Results
Forward-looking Guidance
     Intuit updated its revenue, GAAP diluted earnings per share, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2007, which ends on July 31. The company now expects:
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 3
     The company's guidance for the fourth quarter of 2007 is unchanged. Additional details are available on Intuit's Web site at http://web.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/earnings/2007/.
Company Announces New Stock Repurchase Program
     Intuit also announced today a new stock repurchase program for up to $800 million over the next three years. Intuit used all remaining funds in its last $500 million repurchase program, authorized in May 2006, during its third-quarter 2007, which ended on April 30. Since authorizing its first stock repurchase program in May 2001, Intuit has spent approximately $3.7 billion to repurchase approximately 159 million shares of its stock.
Webcast and Conference Call Information
     A live audio webcast of Intuit's third-quarter 2007 conference call is available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. PDT. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has also posted this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations on its Web site and will post the conference call script shortly after the conference call concludes. These documents may be found at .
http://web.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast_events.html
http://web.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/earnings/2007/
     The conference call number is 866-802-4328 in the United States or 703-639-1322 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1077233.
Intuit, the Intuit logo, and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E which follow it. A copy of the press release filed by Intuit on May 17, 2007 can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 4
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2007 and beyond; expectations of double-digit revenue and earnings growth; and all of the statements under the heading "Forward-Looking Guidance."
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities regulating the filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; any failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability; any significant product quality problems or delays in our products could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our acquisition activities may be disruptive to Intuit and may not result in expected benefits; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operations; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; we have implemented, and are continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with our ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage our business; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2006 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 17, 2007, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these remarks.
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors
 
 
 
The accompanying press release dated May 17, 2007 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Tables B and E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income (loss) and related operating margin as a percentage of revenue, non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when assessing the performance of the organization, our operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related costs, or the other excluded items that may impact their business units' operating income (loss) and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We also exclude these amounts from our budget and planning process. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures:
The following describes each non-GAAP financial measure, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measure in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
We refer to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate our internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding this Table B for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure. All share and per share figures in this Table B retroactively reflect our July 2006 two-for-one common stock split.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 


