FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20070822163817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 22, 2007, Intuit Inc. ("Intuit") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2007 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
The information in this Item and Exhibit 99.01 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors, Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 22, 2007, Intuit announced that on January 1, 2008 Stephen M. Bennett will be stepping down as President and Chief Executive Officer of Intuit, and will continue as a member of Intuit's Board of Directors. In addition, Intuit's Board of Directors has appointed Brad D. Smith to become Intuit's next President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 1, 2008. At that time, Mr. Smith will also become a member of Intuit's Board of Directors. Mr. Smith will continue as Senior Vice President of Intuit's Small Business Division through December 31, 2007.
Mr. Smith, 43, has been Senior Vice President and General Manager of Intuit's Small Business Division and QuickBooks Group since May 2005. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Intuit's Consumer Tax Group from March 2004 to May 2005, and Vice President and General Manager of Intuit's Accountant Central and Developer Network from February 2003 to March 2004. Prior to joining Intuit in 2003, Mr. Smith was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Business Development of ADP, a provider of business outsourcing solutions, where he held several executive positions from 1996 to 2003.
Intuit and Mr. Bennett entered into a Transition Agreement on August 21, 2007 (the "Agreement"), under which Mr. Bennett has agreed to provide continuing services as a consultant from January 2, 2008 through July 31, 2008 at a monthly consulting fee equal to his current monthly salary of $91,700. In addition, Mr. Bennett will receive an option to purchase 50,000 shares of Intuit common stock and an award of 50,000 restricted stock units, with both awards vesting on July 31, 2008, contingent on his continued service through that date. He is also eligible for a bonus of up to $1,760,000 at the end of fiscal 2008, at the discretion of Intuit's Compensation and Organizational Development Committee. Finally, Mr. Bennett will receive accelerated vesting of 45,000 outstanding restricted shares and 172,221 restricted stock units under the terms of his existing equity agreements and a payment of $550,000 under his existing employment agreement.
The Agreement has been filed as an exhibit to this report on Form 8-K, and becomes irrevocable 7 days from August 21, 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 10.01
PO Box 7850, MS 2550 Mountain View, CA 94039-7850
August 21, 2007
Stephen M. Bennett
Dear Steve:
          Thank you for your history of strong leadership at Intuit Inc. ("") and for agreeing to provide ongoing leadership at Intuit during the coming months. Your continued support through this transition period is important to our continued success.
Intuit
          This Transition Agreement confirms the terms of your separation from the employment of Intuit (referred to herein as your "") in connection with changes in leadership at Intuit, including the agreed benefits provided in exchange for your transition services and certain waivers and releases contained herein.
Resignation
 
July 31, 2008, you will be eligible to receive a maximum target bonus for the 2008 fiscal year of 160% of your current base salary, or $1,760,000, less applicable deductions and withholdings (the ""). The amount of the FY08 Target Bonus (if any) will be determined by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee (the "") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "") in its sole discretion. The FY08 Target Bonus replaces any annual performance bonus under Intuit's Senior Executive Incentive Plan for fiscal year 2008 as previously set forth in your Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with the Company, dated July 30, 2003 (the ""). Any payment of the FY08 Target Bonus approved by the Compensation Committee shall be paid on or about August 31, 2008 and no later than March 15, 2009, in order to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
FY08 Target Bonus
Compensation Committee
Board
Employment Agreement
Code
 
exercisable for so long as you remain a member of the Board as set forth on the Equity Statement. Please review the Equity Statement and your current equity award documentation carefully as there are no extensions to the expiration date of your current equity awards. Please contact Sharon Savatski at (650) 9446504 if you need more information.
 
 
Transition Agreement by Intuit shall be deemed Intuit's approval and acceptance of this 2003 RSU election by the Compensation Committee, resulting in 340,000 shares of Intuit common stock being issued to you on January 2, 2008 (the first trading day of 2008) pursuant to the terms and restrictions of the 2003 RSU. You acknowledge and agree that Intuit shall deduct, from the number of shares to be issued to you, a number of shares having a value equal to the amount of taxes Intuit is required to withhold and remit on your behalf to the applicable tax authorities.
 
 
the Release shall otherwise remain effective as to any and all other claims. For purposes of interpretation of this Transition Agreement, each party shall be deemed a drafter of the Transition Agreement.
If this Transition Agreement accurately sets forth the terms of your transition and separation from Intuit and if you voluntarily agree to accept the terms of this Transition Agreement, please sign below and return it to Sherry Whiteley.
 
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS TRANSITION AGREEMENT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
Sincerely,
INTUIT INC.
 
          As required by the Transition Agreement, dated August 21, 2007 between you and Intuit Inc. (the "") to which this Release Agreement (the "") is attached as , this Release Agreement sets forth below your waiver and release of claims in favor of Intuit Inc. and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns (collectively, the "") in exchange for the consideration provided for under the terms of the Transition Agreement.
Transition Agreement
Release Agreement
Exhibit A
Company
 
intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress; claims for wages, bonuses, commissions, stock-based compensation or fringe benefits; vacation pay; sick pay; insurance reimbursement, medical expenses, and the like.
 
 
 
Please sign this Release Agreement no earlier than your Resignation Date (as defined in the Transition Agreement) and return it to Sherry Whiteley at the address above.
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS RELEASE AGREEMENT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
REVIEWED, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
DO NOT SIGN PRIOR TO THE RESIGNATION DATE

 
Exhibit 99.01
- Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced strong results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007, which ended July 31.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 22, 2007
     "We are very pleased with the results of our fourth quarter and fiscal year," said Steve Bennett, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "All of our businesses performed very well. We posted another year of double-digit revenue and earnings growth and we feel great about our position as we enter fiscal 2008."
Fiscal 2007 Financial Highlights
Fiscal 2007 Business Segment Results
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 2
Fourth-Quarter 2007 Highlights
Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2008
     Intuit provided its financial guidance for fiscal 2008, which will end on July 31, 2008. The company expects:
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 3
     Revenue, GAAP EPS and non-GAAP EPS guidance for each quarter of fiscal 2008 is provided in the accompanying tables.
Fiscal 2008 Business Segment Guidance
     Intuit's expected results for its business segments for the 2008 fiscal year are:
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 4
First-Quarter 2008 Guidance
     Intuit's expected results for the first quarter of 2008, which will end Oct. 31, 2007 are:
Webcast and Conference Call Information
     A live audio webcast of Intuit's fourth-quarter and fiscal 2007 conference call is available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. PDT. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has also posted this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations on its Web site and will post the conference call script shortly after the conference call concludes. These documents may be found at .
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/webcast.jhtml
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors/earnings/2007/
     The conference call number is 866-837-9786 in the United States or 703-639-1423 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1120809.
Intuit, the Intuit logo, and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E which follow it. A copy of the press release issued by Intuit on August 22, 2007 can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2007 Earnings Page 5
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2008 and beyond; and all of the statements under the headings "Forward-Looking Guidance for Fiscal 2008," "Fiscal 2008 Business Segment Guidance" and "First Quarter 2008 Guidance."
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities regulating the filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; any failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability; any significant product quality problems or delays in our products could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our acquisition activities may be disruptive to Intuit and may not result in expected benefits; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operations; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; we have implemented, and are continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with our ability to ship and deliver products and gather information to effectively manage our business; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2006 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of August 22, 2007, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these remarks.
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors
 
 
 
The accompanying press release dated August 22, 2007 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Tables B and E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income (loss) and related operating margin as a percentage of revenue, non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when assessing the performance of the organization, our operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related costs, or the other excluded items that may impact their business units' operating income (loss) and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We also exclude these amounts from our budget and planning process. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures:
The following describes each non-GAAP financial measure, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measure in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
We refer to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate our internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding this Table B for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding Table B for more information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 

 
Exhibit 99.02
     Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced that Steve Bennett, current president and chief executive officer, will step down at the end of December 2007. Intuit's board of directors has appointed Brad Smith, current senior vice president and general manager of Intuit's Small Business Division, to succeed him effective Jan. 1.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 22, 2007 
     "Steve Bennett has been an outstanding leader for Intuit over the last eight seasons," said Bill Campbell, chairman of Intuit's board of directors. "He has consistently delivered great results and he has built enduring pillars of growth that will take this company into the future."
     Under Bennett, the company has nearly tripled its revenue with double-digit growth every year and quadrupled its earnings. Bennett, 53, will remain an Intuit board member. In addition, he'll serve as a consultant to the leadership team through July 2008, when the company's fiscal year ends.
     "I'm extremely proud of what we've accomplished since I joined Intuit in 2000," Bennett said. "Now, with eight successful seasons under my belt, the company solidly positioned for the future, and a CEO successor ready to lead the company, it's the right time for me to take some time off and explore the next challenge in my life."
 
Intuit CEO Succession Page 2
     
Smith to Take Reins in January
     Smith, 43, will continue in his current role leading Intuit's Small Business Division until the end of the year as both he and Bennett work closely to successfully complete the transition.
     "Steve has been a strong driver of our succession planning efforts at Intuit," Campbell said. "And through that process Brad clearly emerged as the right person to be Intuit's next CEO."
     "Having led each of our biggest businesses, Brad has a proven track record inside and outside of Intuit," Bennett said. "He has been instrumental in shaping the strategy. He has a strong and experienced management team in place. And he's ready to lead Intuit into the future. I look forward to working with him in his new role."
     Smith credited Bennett with helping prepare him for the CEO role.
     "I'm thrilled and honored to lead Intuit through the next chapter in its history," said Smith. "It's been a tremendous experience learning from Steve. Under his leadership, Intuit has consistently delivered fantastic results for employees, customers and shareholders. And we have a clear strategy in place that will guide us into the future."
     Smith was appointed to his Small Business Division role in May 2005. Previously, he was senior vice president and general manager of Intuit's Consumer Tax Group and, before that, vice president and general manager of the company's Accountant Central organization and the Intuit Developer Network.
     Before joining Intuit in February 2003, Smith was senior vice president of marketing and business development at ADP. He has also held various sales, marketing and general management positions with Pepsi, Seven-Up and Advo, Inc. Smith earned his master's degree in management from Aquinas College and a bachelor's in business administration from Marshall University.
     Smith's complete biography is available on .
http://www.intuit.com/brad_smith_bio.pdf
 
Intuit CEO Succession Page 3
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses; financial institutions, including banks and credit unions; consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax software, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation software suites for professional accountants. The company's financial institutions division, anchored by Digital Insight, provides on-demand banking services to help banks and credit unions serve businesses and consumers with innovative solutions.
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $2.67 billion in its fiscal year 2007. The company has approximately 8,000 employees with major offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other locations. More information can be found at
www.intuit.com


