FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20080208060105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On February 4, 2008, Intuit Inc. and Jeffrey E. Stiefler entered into a Separation Terms and General Release Agreement (the "Agreement"), under which Mr. Stiefler's employment with Intuit will terminate on February 15, 2008 and he will provide services as a consultant through July 2008. In exchange for his waiver and release of claims in favor of the company, Mr. Stiefler will receive accelerated vesting of 40,000 restricted stock units and a one-time payment of $45,000 for continuing healthcare premiums.
     The Agreement has been filed as an exhibit to this report on Form 8-K, and becomes irrevocable 7 days from February 4, 2008.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Terms and General Release Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.01
PO Box 7850, MS 2550 Mountain View, CA 94039-7850
February 4, 2008
Jeffrey E. Stiefler
Re:
Separation Terms and General Release Agreement
Dear Jeff:
This letter confirms the terms of your separation from the employment of Intuit Inc. and consideration in exchange for your waiver and general release of claims in favor of Intuit Inc. and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns, including but not limited to Digital Insight Corporation (collectively, the "" or "").
Company
Intuit
 
 
 
If this Agreement accurately sets forth the terms of your separation from the Company and if you voluntarily agree to accept the terms of the severance package offered please sign below and return it to me.
 
THIS CONSULTING AGREEMENT for independent contractor consulting services ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of by and between Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and Jeff Stiefler (the ""), an individual.
                    
Contractor
     1. . Effective as of , 2008 (the "Effective Date"), and in accordance with the mutual intentions of the Company and the Contractor, this Agreement establishes between them an independent contractor relationship, and all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in light of that relationship. There is no intention to create by this Agreement an employer-employee relationship.
Independent Contractor Relationship
                    
     2. . The Contractor shall commence providing services on the Effective Date and shall continue to do so until July 31, 2008 (the "Term"), subject to earlier termination in accordance with Section 10 hereof.
Term
     3. . It is understood and agreed that the Company has the right (although it has no obligation) to use, and the Contractor shall provide, the Contractor's services for up to 20 hours per week. However, the Contractor's compensation pursuant to the Agreement in any event shall not be reduced based on the number of hours of service required by the Company. The Contractor warrants and represents that there is no conflict of interest in the Contractor's other contracts for services or other employment, if any, with the services to be provided pursuant to this Agreement and that the Contractor will ensure that no such conflict arises during the term of this Agreement (which includes but is in no way limited to use of another's confidential and proprietary information).
Amount of Service
     4. . The Contractor will provide all reasonably requested services by the Company regarding any special projects assigned to the Contractor. In addition, the Contractor will provide such services to the Company as may be requested by the Company from time to time, including, but not limited to, the following services:
Type of Service
     (a) Aiding in the development and execution of corporate strategy with regard to the Intuit Financial Institutions Division ("IFID"); and
     (b) providing all other reasonably requested services by the Company regarding IFID and the Company.
     5. .
Payment
     (a) During the Term, the Company shall pay to the Contractor for his services a total monthly consulting fee of $17,000 (payable in bi-monthly installments of $8,500).
     (b) The payment herein provided shall constitute full payment for the Contractor's services to the Company during the term of this Agreement, and the
 
Contractor shall not receive any additional benefits or compensation for consulting services, except that the Company will reimburse the Contractor for reasonable and customary expenses incurred at the Company's request in connection with such consulting. All such costs and expenses shall be itemized by statement and each statement shall be accompanied by substantiating bills or vouchers. The Contractor must obtain prior authorization for any expenses which the Contractor reasonably expects to exceed $2,000.
       6. . Without limiting any of the foregoing, the Contractor shall be solely responsible for, and the Company shall not withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement, and Federal, state and local income or employment taxes, Contractor agrees to reimburse and indemnify the Company for any taxes or penalties which the Company may be compelled to pay on behalf of Contractor.
Contractor Responsible for Taxes and Indemnification
       7. . The Contractor agrees to furnish personal services as provided herein as an independent contractor using the Contractor's own means and methods.
Means and Methods
       8. . The Contractor agrees that all data and information about the Company's business, plans, finances, plants, equipment, processes and methods of operation disclosed to, acquired by or developed by the Contractor during performance of the work hereunder is and shall remain the exclusive property of the Company. Except for such information and data as can be proven by the Contractor to be in or to have entered the public domain through no fault of the Contractor or to have been in the Contractor's possession prior to disclosure to the Contractor by the Company and/or the performance of Contractor's services hereunder, Contractor shall during the term of the Agreement and thereafter in perpetuity maintain as confidential and not disclose to third parties or otherwise use, and will enjoin the Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors (as applicable) from using, such information except as duly authorized in the conduct of the Company's business. The Contractor agrees that such data and information shall be used by the Contractor solely for the purpose of performing services for the Company and not for the benefit of any other person or entity whatsoever.
Confidentiality
       9. . The Contractor shall not assign or transfer any rights under this Agreement without the Company's prior written consent, and any attempt of assignment or transfer without such consent shall be void. The Company may, however, assign the Agreement.
No Assignments by Contractor
       10. . This Agreement is terminable at will by the Company at any time upon three (3) days' written notice to the Contractor. If the Company exercises the right to terminate the Agreement, any obligation the Company may have under this Agreement shall cease immediately. The Contractor's obligation pursuant to paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this Agreement shall continue in perpetuity.
Termination by Notice
       11. . This Agreement shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered within the State of California, and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the state of California without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
California Law Governs
 
     12. . If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or applications and, to this end, the provisions of this Agreement are declared to be severable.
Severability
     13. . No waiver of any breach of any term or provision of this Agreement shall be construed to be, or shall be, a waiver of any other breach of this Agreement. No waiver shall be binding unless in writing and signed by the party waiving the breach.
Waiver of Breach
     14. . Any notice required to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given either when served personally or when served by first-class mail addressed to either party. Notices to the Company shall be effective only when addressed to:
Notice
(or another designated by proper notice under this Agreement). Notice to the Contractor shall be effective only when addressed to:
     15. . The Contractor shall comply with any and all applicable laws and regulations including but not limited to health, safety and security rules and regulations which are now in effect or which may become applicable.
Compliance with Law
     16. . This instrument constitutes and contains the entire Agreement and final understanding between the parties covering the services provided by the Contractor. It is intended by the parties as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of their agreement. It supersedes all prior negotiations and agreements, proposed or otherwise, whether written or oral, between the parties concerning employment with the Company or consulting services provided by the Contractor, with the exception of the Separation Terms and General Release Agreement between the Contractor and the Company, to be entered into prior to the Effective Date. This is a fully integrated document. This Agreement may be modified only with a written instrument duly executed by each of the parties. No person has any authority to make any representation or promise on behalf of any of the parties not set forth herein and this Agreement has not been executed in reliance upon any representations or promises except those contained herein.
Entire Agreement
     17. . Headings are used only for ease of reference and are not controlling.
Headings not Controlling
 
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
As required by the Separation Terms & General Release Agreement, dated February 4, 2008 between you and Intuit Inc. (the "") to which this Release Agreement (the "") is attached as , this Release Agreement sets forth below your waiver and release of claims in favor of Intuit Inc. and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns, including but not limited to Digital Insight Corporation (collectively, the "") in exchange for the consideration provided for under the terms of the Separation Terms Agreement.
Separation Terms Agreement
Release Agreement
Exhibit B
Company
 
 
 
Please sign this Release Agreement no earlier than your Termination Date (as defined in the Separation Terms Agreement) and return it to Jim Grenier at the address above.
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS RELEASE AGREEMENT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
REVIEWED, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
DO NOT SIGN PRIOR TO THE TERMINATION DATE


