FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20090820162807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On August 20, 2009, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended July 31, 2009 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
Highlights:
                Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced fiscal year 2009 revenue of $3.183 billion, a 4 percent increase from last year. For the fiscal year, GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) operating income grew 5 percent to $682 million, while non-GAAP operating income grew 9 percent to $931 million.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Aug. 20, 2009
               Intuit also provided full-year guidance for the 2010 fiscal year, projecting GAAP operating income growth of 15 to 21 percent, non-GAAP operating income growth of 6 to 10 percent, GAAP earnings per share growth of 10 to 16 percent and non-GAAP earnings per share growth of 4 to 8 percent.
               "We delivered solid revenue and operating income growth in 2009 by staying focused on helping our customers save and make money in this tough economy, while maintaining our own operating discipline," said Brad Smith, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "Connected services that solve important customer problems, led by our SaaS (Software as a Service) offerings, grew 14 percent this past year. These predictable revenue streams continue to be the fastest-growing portion of our business, and a key element of our future."
               "As a result, we are entering our new fiscal year with larger customer bases and stronger positions in all of our core businesses. This gives us confidence that we'll have another good year in fiscal 2010," Smith said.
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 2
Fiscal 2009 Financial Highlights
Fiscal 2009 Business Segment Results
             Intuit has changed its business reporting structure and segment names to better reflect the relationships between the segments and provide additional insight into business unit performance.
             The Small Business Group now includes three reporting segments: Financial Management Solutions, Employee Management Solutions and Payments Solutions. Financial Management Solutions was formerly known as the QuickBooks segment. Employee Management Solutions and Payments Solutions were formerly combined in the Payroll and Payments segment. The company will provide guidance at the Small Business Group level.
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 3
Fourth-Quarter 2009 Highlights
             Intuit typically posts a seasonal loss in its fourth quarter when there is little revenue from its tax businesses but expenses remain relatively constant. The 2009 GAAP and non-GAAP loss includes a $10 million charge for severance and facilities closures and a $9 million charge related to the July acquisition of PayCycle.
Forward-looking Guidance
             Intuit provided its financial guidance for fiscal 2010, which will end on July 31, 2010. The company expects:
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 4
Fiscal 2010 Business Segment Guidance
              Intuit's expected results for its business segments for fiscal 2010 are:
First-Quarter Fiscal 2010 Guidance
              Intuit expects the following results for the first quarter of 2010, which will end on Oct. 31, 2009:
Webcast and Conference Call Information
               A live audio webcast of Intuit's fourth-quarter 2009 conference call is available at The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has also posted this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations, on its Web site and will post the conference call script shortly after the conference call concludes. These documents may be found at
http://investors.intuit.com/events.cfm.
http://investors.intuit.com/results.cfm.
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 5
               The conference call number is 866-238-1645 in the United States or 703-639-1163 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1382220.
               Intuit, the Intuit logo and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E. A copy of the press release issued by Intuit on Aug. 20, 2009 can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's future expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2010; and all of the statements under the headings "Forward-looking Guidance," "Fiscal 2010 Business Segment Guidance", and "First-Quarter Fiscal 2010 Guidance."
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities or public policy affecting the preparation and filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; if economic and market conditions in the U.S. and worldwide continue to decline, our customers may delay or reduce technology purchases which may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition; we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; any failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability; any significant product quality problems or delays in our products could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our acquisition activities may be disruptive to Intuit and may not result in expected benefits; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operations; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; we have implemented, and are continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with our ability to deliver products and services and gather information to effectively manage our business; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks
 
Intuit Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 6
that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2008 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at Forward-looking statements are based on information as of Aug. 20, 2009, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these remarks.
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following this Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
The accompanying press release dated August 20, 2009 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Table B and Table E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
We exclude the following items from all of our non-GAAP financial measures:
We also exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income (loss) and diluted net income (loss) per share:
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when planning and forecasting and when assessing the performance of the organization, our individual operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related charges, or the other excluded items and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison by management and investors of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods.
The following are descriptions of the items we exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures.
. These consist of non-cash expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and purchases of common stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When considering the impact of equity awards, we place greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with those awards.
Share-based compensation expenses
. When we acquire an entity, we are required under GAAP to record the fair values of the intangible assets of the entity and amortize them over their useful lives. Amortization of purchased intangible assets in cost of revenue includes amortization of software and other technology assets of acquired entities. Acquisition-related charges in operating expenses include amortization of other purchased intangible assets such as customer lists, covenants not to compete and trade names.
Amortization of purchased intangible assets and acquisition-related charges
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the portion of technology licensing fees that relates to historical use of that technology.
Charge for historical use of technology licensing rights
We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures gains and losses that we record from time to time when we sell or otherwise dispose of businesses and assets that are not considered discontinued operations under GAAP.
Gains and losses on disposals of businesses and assets.
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures gains and losses that we record when we sell or impair marketable equity securities and other investments.
Gains and losses on marketable equity securities and other investments
 
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the income tax effects of the adjustments described above that relate to the current period as well as adjustments for similar items that relate to prior periods. This is consistent with how we plan, forecast and evaluate our operating results.
Income tax effects of excluded items
. From time to time, we sell or otherwise dispose of selected operations as we adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our strategic goals. In accordance with GAAP, we segregate the operating results of discontinued operations as well as gains and losses on the sale of these discontinued operations from continuing operations on our GAAP statements of operations but continue to include them in GAAP net income or loss and net income or loss per share. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating results and gains and losses on the sale of discontinued operations
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.


