FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20091218144415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
     
Amendment of the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan
     At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Intuit Inc. ("Intuit") held on December 15, 2009, Intuit's stockholders approved an amendment to Intuit's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The amendment was approved by Intuit's Board of Directors, subject to the approval of Intuit's stockholders, and became effective with such stockholder approval on December 15, 2009.
     As a result of such stockholder approval, the Plan was amended and modified in the following manner:
     A more complete description of the terms of the Plan and the material amendments and modifications thereto can be found in "Proposal No. 3  Approval of an Amendment to the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan" (pages 45 through 52) in Intuit's definitive proxy statement dated October 30, 2009, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2009. The foregoing descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report.
     
Amendment of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Intuit, Intuit's stockholders approved an amendment to Intuit's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). The amendment was approved by Intuit's Board of Directors, subject to the approval of Intuit's stockholders, and became effective with such stockholder approval on December 15, 2009.
     As a result of such stockholder approval, an additional 3,000,000 shares of Intuit's common stock were authorized for issuance over the term of the ESPP.
     A more complete description of the terms of the ESPP and the amendment thereto can be found in "Proposal No. 4  Approval of an Amendment to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan" (pages 54 through 56) in Intuit's definitive proxy statement dated October 30, 2009, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2009. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the ESPP, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.02 to this report.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
     In December 2009, Scott D. Cook, founder, board member and Executive Officer of Intuit, adopted a stock trading plan on behalf of his family trust to sell up to 1,200,000 shares of Intuit common stock and contribute 240,000 additional shares to the Scott Cook and Signe Ostby Charitable Foundation
Table of Contents
beginning in February 2010 and continuing through December 2010. Subject to the terms and conditions of this plan, Mr. Cook's family trust will sell 300,000 shares and contribute 60,000 shares to the charitable foundation each quarter provided certain limit prices are reached.
     The Scott Cook and Signe Ostby Charitable Foundation also adopted a stock trading plan in December 2010 to sell the 240,000 shares of Intuit stock contributed by Mr. Cook's family trust during the same period provided certain limit prices are reached.
     In December 2009, Brad D. Smith, Intuit's President and Chief Executive Officer, adopted a stock trading plan related to the exercise and sale of up to 200,000 shares of Intuit common stock issuable under options granted in 2003-2005. Subject to the terms and conditions of this plan, a brokerage firm may periodically exercise Mr. Smith's stock options and sell the issued shares before the expiration of the plan in December 2010, provided certain limit prices are reached.
     Each of these plans is intended to satisfy the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act and each was adopted in accordance with Intuit's policies regarding securities transactions. Rule 10b5-1 permits individuals who are not in possession of material, non-public information at the time the plan is adopted to establish pre-arranged plans to buy or sell company stock.
     Transactions under these plans will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to the extent required by law.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.03
Award No. GrantNumber
Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ("Award") pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), for the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock") set forth below. All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ("Agreement") that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan. This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference. This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan. If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply.
Name of Participant: Address:
 
This Agreement, together with the Plan and any documentation evidencing a deferral of your Restricted Stock Units (which are incorporated by reference), constitute the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersede all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award. Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives). All notices required under this Agreement, your deferral documentation or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company at its address set forth in this Agreement, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.
The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant.
 
     This form permits you to elect to defer delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying vested Restricted Stock Units granted to you pursuant to the Intuit Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as described below.
NOTE:
If you do not want to defer delivery of your shares upon vesting, you do not need to complete this form.
     This deferral election is subject to the terms of the Plan and your Grant Agreement. Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meanings in the Plan.
I. PARTICIPANT NAME
II. DEFERRAL ELECTION
I hereby elect to defer the delivery of Common Stock underlying the vested Restricted Stock Units granted to me during calendar year 20: (check the appropriate box(es) and select percentage(s) from 25% to 100%, in increments of 25%)
       
NOTE:
If you do not want to defer delivery of your shares upon vesting, you do not need to complete this form.
 
III. DISTRIBUTION ELECTION
I elect for my deferred Common Stock to be paid in the years indicated below with a maximum deferral of 5 years after final vesting date (check the appropriate box(es). Actual payout will be made in the January following the year selected.
Regardless of your election(s) above, your Common Stock will be paid to you upon any Termination (including Disability and death) or immediately prior to the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction, if earlier than the time indicated above.
IV. IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Your deferral and distribution elections are irrevocable. This is an unfunded Plan, which means that your only assurance of payment is the promise of the Company. The Company is not obligated to purchase or maintain any assets to pay amounts under the Plan, and you have no rights to benefits under the Plan other than as an unsecured creditor.
V. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION
In the event of your death, you hereby designate the beneficiary(ies) identified below to receive the Common Stock underlying your grant. If you do not designate your current spouse as sole primary beneficiary, you must obtain the written consent of your spouse (see below). If you designate more than one beneficiary, indicate the percentage of your Common Stock each beneficiary should receive.
PRIMARY BENEFICIARY
 
If such primary beneficiary(ies) do not survive you by at least thirty (30) days, the following shall be the beneficiary(ies):
 
CONTINGENT BENEFICIARY
 
This beneficiary designation and spousal consent is effective upon receipt by the Company (provided the form is completed properly). Upon such receipt, all previous beneficiary designation and spousal consents hereby are revoked.
SPOUSAL CONSENT
I, , am the spouse of . I acknowledge that my spouse has designated a person or persons other than me as a primary beneficiary to receive Common Stock underlying Restricted Stock Units, and I hereby approve of that designation. I agree that the designation shall be binding upon me with the same effect as if I personally had executed said designation.
                    
                    
                    
                     
VI. SECTION 409A
I understand that notwithstanding my elections on this form, in the unlikely event that I am classified as a "specified employee," as that term is defined under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A") with respect to the Common Stock deferred under this election, any payment of Common Stock upon my "separation from service" (as defined under Section 409A) shall be delayed for six months to the extent required under Section 409A. I hereby consent to any amendment to these elections that may be required in order to comply with Section 409A.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I hereby agree to the elections indicated on this form, and acknowledge that I have received and reviewed the Plan.


