FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20090219161646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On February 19, 2009, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
*This exhibit is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 99.01
Highlights:
     - Intuit Inc. (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced second quarter GAAP operating income of $110 million, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of 26 cents, well above its expected range. Second-quarter revenue of $791 million, a five percent decrease from the year-ago quarter, reflects timing changes of $58 million of revenue in its tax businesses between the second and third quarters. Without those changes, revenue would have grown two percent.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Feb. 19, 2009
     "Second-quarter operating income and earnings per share significantly exceeded our guidance, and revenue was within our expected range," said Brad Smith, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "We continue to adapt in this strained economy and manage the business by focusing on customer acquisition and investing in innovation. By managing our expenses, we expect to deliver strong earnings growth for the year.
     "While our company is not recession-proof, we are resilient. Consumers and small business owners are focused on saving and making money, and that is what our products are designed to deliver. We help them put more money in their pockets,
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 2
which creates demand for many of our offerings in any environment. That's why we still expect to deliver positive revenue growth for fiscal year 2009," Smith said.
Second-Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights
Second-Quarter 2009 Business Segment Results
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 3
Third-Quarter 2009 Guidance
     Intuit provided guidance for its third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which will end on April 30. Intuit's expected results for the third quarter are:
Fiscal 2009 Guidance
     Intuit also updated its previous guidance for fiscal year 2009. For fiscal 2009, the company now expects:
     Intuit also updated previously given fiscal 2009 business segment revenue guidance. The company now expects:
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 4
Webcast and Conference Call Information
     A live audio webcast of Intuit's second-quarter 2009 conference call is available at . The call begins today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time. The replay of the audio webcast will remain on Intuit's Web site for one week after the conference call. Intuit has also posted this press release, including the attached tables and non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations on its Web site and will post the conference call script shortly after the conference call concludes. These documents may be found at .
http://investors.intuit.com/events.cfm
http://investors.intuit.com/releases.cfm
     The conference call number is 866-814-1918 in the United States or 703-639-1362 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. A replay of the call will be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1327578.
Intuit, the Intuit logo and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 5
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E which follow it. A copy of the press release issued by Intuit on February 19, 2009 can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's future expected financial results; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2009 and beyond; and all of the statements under the headings "Third-Quarter 2009 Guidance" and "Fiscal 2009 Guidance."
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities or public policy affecting the preparation and filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; if economic and market conditions in the U.S. and worldwide continue to decline, our customers may delay or reduce technology purchases which may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition; we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future products and services may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; any failure to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our offerings could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and profitability; any significant product quality problems or delays in our products could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our acquisition activities may be disruptive to Intuit and may not result in expected benefits; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operations; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; predicting tax-related revenues is challenging due to the heavy concentration of activity in a short time period; we have implemented, and are continuing to upgrade, new information systems and any problems with these new systems could interfere with our ability to deliver products and services and gather information to effectively manage our business; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2008 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at . Forward-looking statements are based on information as of February 19, 2009, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these remarks.
http://www.intuit.com/about_intuit/investors
 
 
 
 
 
The accompanying press release dated February 19, 2009 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Table B and Table E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income (loss) and related operating margin as a percentage of revenue, non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when assessing the performance of the organization, our operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related costs, or the other excluded items that may impact their business units' operating income (loss) and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We also exclude these amounts from our budget and planning process. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
The following describes each non-GAAP financial measure, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measure in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
We refer to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the performance of Intuit's ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate our internal comparisons to Intuit's historical operating results. We have historically reported similar non-GAAP financial measures and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year.
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately preceding this Table B for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
 
 


