FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20090817165612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Grants of Restricted Stock Units to Executive Officers
On August 11, 2009, Intuit Inc. granted Restricted Stock Units (the "2009 RSUs") to certain executive officers as part of Intuit's annual performance review process. Approximately 55% of the 2009 RSUs will be performance-based and will vest in 2012 (or in the case of the CEO, in 2012 and 2014) as to a variable percentage of the underlying shares if, and to the extent that, Intuit achieves specified goals for year-over-year revenue growth and return on invested capital ("ROIC") for the year ending July 31, 2010. The other 45% of the 2009 RSUs will vest over time as to equal increments in 2011 and 2012 (or in the case of the CEO, in 2012 and 2014). In the aggregate, Intuit issued approximately 123,000 performance-based RSUs and 98,000 time-based RSUs to its most senior executives. These grants have been reported on Forms 4 filed on August 13, 2009.
In addition, the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee) has approved amendments to the performance-based RSUs granted to certain executive officers on August 11, 2008 (the "2008 RSUs") to establish new performance goals for the 2008 RSUs. In light of the economic downturn, Intuit did not achieve its original performance goals for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2009. The Committee determined that it was appropriate and in the best interests of Intuit and its stockholders to amend these performance goals by setting new targets applicable to 2010, thereby providing further incentive to the executive officers to achieve 2010 revenue growth and ROIC goals. As amended, the 2008 RSUs will vest in 2011 (or in the case of the CEO, in 2011 and 2013) as to a variable percentage of the total number of underlying shares if, and to the extent that, Intuit achieves specified goals for year-over-year revenue growth and ROIC for the year ending July 31, 2010. These amendments affected approximately 151,000 RSUs held by Intuit's most senior executives.
(d)    Exhibits.
10.01 Form of 2009 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.01
Award No. <Insert Award#>
Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ("Award") pursuant to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ("Common Stock") set forth below. All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ("Agreement") that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan. This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference. This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan. If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply.
Name of Participant: Employee ID: Address: Number of Shares: Date of Grant: Vesting Date:
The (1) net revenue growth and (2) return on operating income targets, attached hereto on (the "Performance Goals") must be achieved between August 1, 2009 and July 31, 2010 (the "Performance Period") and certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee (the "Committee") in order for the Time-Based Vesting described below to commence. The Committee will make such certification as soon as reasonably possible (the date of such determination shall be known as the "Determination Date") following the end of the Performance Period. If the Committee determines that the Performance Goals were not met by July 31, 2010 (and an event described in either Section 1(c) or 1(d) has not occurred on or before the Determination Date) this Award shall terminate upon the Determination Date. For the avoidance of doubt, except as provided in Sections 1(c) and 1(d), in no event will the Award become vested unless the Performance Goals are achieved (as certified by the Committee on the Determination Date).
Performance Goals to Begin Time-Based Vesting:
Exhibit A
: If the above Performance Goals are met, this Award will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on the Vesting Date set forth above, provided you have not Terminated through those respective dates.
Time-Based Vesting Once Performance Factor Goals Are Met
 
 
This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award. Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives). All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company at its address set forth in this Agreement, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.
 
The Company has signed this Award Agreement effective as the Date of Grant.


