FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20111117160900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On November 17, 2011, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2011 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On November 17, 2011, Intuit also announced that its Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.15 per share. The cash dividend will be paid on January 18, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 10, 2012. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of the Intuit Board of Directors. A copy of the press release announcing the cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Report.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
 . (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced financial results for its first fiscal quarter, which ended Oct. 31, and reiterated guidance for the full fiscal year 2012.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Nov. 17, 2011
Intuit Inc
Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to the current fiscal quarter versus the comparable prior-year quarter.
First Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 2
 
Snapshot of First Quarter Results
 
Dollars are in millions, except EPS.
Intuit typically posts a seasonal loss in its first fiscal quarter when there is little revenue from its tax businesses but expenses continue at relatively consistent levels.
CEO Perspective
"We're off to another strong start in fiscal 2012, growing revenue double-digits. Growth was led by our Small Business Group, which has now posted double-digit growth for seven consecutive quarters," said Brad Smith, president and chief executive officer. "Across the board our first-quarter results are in line with our expectations, so we are reiterating our guidance for fiscal 2012.
"Our business is growing despite a volatile macroeconomic environment, because we benefit from secular tailwinds. The long-term structural shift to connected services is overpowering the cyclical uncertainty weighing down the economy. Intuit also benefits from enriching the mix for our base of 50 million customers who are rapidly adopting connected services, which generate recurring revenue streams and favorable lifetime value economics for Intuit.
"Our results in the first quarter reinforce that our strategy is working and give us confidence as we head into the remainder of our fiscal year. We are in a digital jet stream, as consumers and small businesses increasingly demand access to applications anytime, anywhere and on any device. That demand will only get stronger as the proliferation of mobile devices continues. If we do our job well, and continue to innovate, we will benefit from these ongoing trends for a long time to come."
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 3
 
Business Segment Results and Highlights
Total revenue increased 13 percent for the quarter. Within the Small Business Group:
Small Business Group
 
 
 
Consumer Tax
 
Accounting Professionals
 
Financial Services
 
Other Businesses
 
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 4
 
Quarterly Dividend
Intuit paid its first quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share, or $45 million, in the first quarter. In November the company's board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share to be paid on Jan. 18, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Jan. 10.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the first quarter, Intuit repurchased $255 million of its shares. At the end of the quarter the company had authorization from its board of directors to use up to an additional $2.4 billion for stock repurchases through August 2014.
CFO Perspective
"We've consistently delivered strong total Small Business Group revenue results, which are benefiting from the ongoing shift from desktop to online services," said Neil Williams, Intuit's chief financial officer.
"Approximately 70 percent of small business customers now enter the Intuit franchise through a connected service, including QuickBooks Online and other services, up from 40 percent in 2008.
We expect the rapid adoption of connected services to continue in small business and across all of our businesses. Today, we reported that our first quarter fiscal 2012 loss narrowed significantly compared to the first quarter of last year, which reinforces the benefit of the shift to more recurring, reliable connected services revenue."
Forward-looking Guidance
For the of fiscal 2012, Intuit expects:
second quarter
 
 
 
 
 
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 5
 
Intuit today also provided GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS guidance ranges for the third and fourth quarters:
For the third quarter of fiscal 2012, Intuit expects:
 
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, Intuit expects:
 
 
Intuit also reiterated its 2012 guidance. For the year ending July 31, 2012, Intuit expects:
fiscal year
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Details
Intuit executives will discuss the financial results on a conference call today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time. To hear the call, dial 866-238-1641 in the United States or 703-639-1162 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. The conference call can also be heard live via webcast at . Prepared remarks for the call will be available on Intuit's website after the call ends.
http://investors.intuit.com/events.cfm
Replay Information
A replay of the conference call will also be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1555508. The audio webcast will remain available on Intuit's website for one week after the conference call. The audio webcast will remain available on Intuit's website for one week after the conference call.
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 6
 
About Intuit Inc.
Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and medium-sized businesses; consumers, accounting professionals and financial institutions. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken, simplify small business management including payment and payroll processing, tax preparation and filing, and personal finance. Lacerte and ProSeries are Intuit's leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Intuit Financial Services helps banks and credit unions grow by providing on-demand solutions and services that make it easier for consumers and businesses to manage their money.
Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $3.9 billion in its fiscal year 2011. The company has approximately 8,000 employees with major offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, India and other locations. More information can be found at .
www.intuit.com
Intuit and the Intuit logo, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the accompanying Table B and Table E as well as the section titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures." A copy of the press release issued by Intuit today can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's future expected financial results; expectations regarding growth from digital services and from current or future products and services; expectations regarding the amount and timing of any future dividends; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2012; and all of the statements under the heading "Forward-Looking Guidance."
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: inherent difficulty in predicting consumer behavior; difficulties in receiving, processing, or filing customer tax submissions; consumers may not respond as we expected to our advertising and promotional activities; product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities or public policy affecting the preparation and filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully innovate and introduce new offerings and business models to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future offerings may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems
Intuit First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings
Page 7
 
may impair the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results; as we upgrade and consolidate our customer facing applications and supporting information technology infrastructure, any problems with these implementations could interfere with our ability to deliver our offerings; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information and data could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; if we are unable to develop, manage and maintain critical third party business relationships, our business may be adversely affected; increased government regulation of our businesses may harm our operating results; if we fail to process transactions effectively or fail to adequately protect against potential fraudulent activities, our revenue and earnings may be harmed; any significant offering quality problems or delays in our offerings could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; the continuing global economic downturn may continue to impact consumer and small business spending, financial institutions and tax filings, which could negatively affect our revenue and profitability; year-over-year changes in the total number of tax filings that are submitted to government agencies due to economic conditions or otherwise may result in lost revenue opportunities; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings; our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operation; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2011 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at http://investors.intuit.com. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of November 17, 2011, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these materials.
 
 
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following this Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
The accompanying press release dated November 17, 2011 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Table B and Table E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
We exclude the following items from all of our non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We also exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share:
 
 
 
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when planning and forecasting and when assessing the performance of the organization, our individual operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expense, amortization, or the other excluded items and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison by management and investors of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods.
The following are descriptions of the items we exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures.
. These consist of non-cash expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When considering the impact of equity awards, we place greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with those awards.
Share-based compensation expenses
. When we acquire an entity, we are required by GAAP to record the fair values of the intangible assets of the entity and amortize them over their useful lives. Amortization of acquired technology in cost of revenue includes amortization of software and other technology assets of acquired entities. Amortization of other acquired intangible assets in operating expenses includes amortization of assets such as customer lists, covenants not to compete and trade names.
Amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures non-cash charges to adjust the carrying values of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets to their estimated fair values.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the professional fees we incur to complete business combinations. These include investment banking, legal and accounting fees.
Professional fees for business combinations
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures gains and losses that we record when we sell or impair available-for-sale debt securities and other investments.
Gains and losses on debt securities and other investments
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the income tax effects of the items described above. In addition, the effects of one-time income tax adjustments recorded in a specific quarter for GAAP purposes are reflected on a forecasted basis in our non-GAAP financial measures. This is consistent with how we plan, forecast and evaluate our operating results.
Income tax effects of excluded items and discrete tax items
. From time to time, we sell or otherwise dispose of selected operations as we adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our strategic goals. In accordance with GAAP, we segregate the operating results of discontinued operations as well as gains and losses on the sale of these discontinued operations from continuing operations on our GAAP statements of operations but continue to include them in GAAP net income or loss and net income or loss per share. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating results and gains and losses on the sale of discontinued operations
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments, and sales of available-for-sale debt securities and other investments.


