FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20110519161100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On May 19, 2011, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2011 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.01
      (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced financial results for its third fiscal quarter, which ended April 30.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  May 19, 2011
Intuit Inc.
     Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates refer to the current period versus the comparable prior-year period.
Third-quarter Highlights
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 2
Snapshot of Third-quarter Results
Dollars in millions except EPS
CEO Perspective
     "Across the company, our businesses continue to benefit from the secular shift from manual, paper-based methods to digital solutions," said Brad Smith, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "Our high-margin core businesses are thriving.
     "In a particularly competitive tax season, we finished with strong momentum, taking share and growing revenue per unit to achieve year-to-date consumer tax revenue growth of 13 percent. In small business, we now serve nearly 5 million unique customers.
     "We've achieved marked success with mobile offerings such as GoPayment and SnapTax, innovative solutions that have helped us establish a leadership position in mobile  the next frontier of connected services. Across the company, we are continuing to innovate in mobile. You'll see interesting new apps from us for consumers and small businesses over the next several quarters.
     "We're pleased with the quarter, we're confident in the year, and we're optimistic about the progress we're seeing across the company," Smith said.
Quarterly Business Segment Results and Highlights
     Total revenue grew 13 percent for the quarter. Improved revenue mix led to another quarter of double-digit revenue growth.
Small Business Group
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 3
Consumer Tax
Accounting Professionals
Financial Services
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 4
Other Businesses
CFO Perspective
     "I'm pleased with the progress we are making in delivering connected services solutions to our customers," said Neil Williams, Intuit's chief financial officer. "Subscriptions to our online solutions generate valuable recurring revenue streams and bring us closer to our customers to help us determine what other products and services will serve their needs. Approximately one-fifth of our small business customers are using connected services that generate recurring revenue. This is the fastest-growing segment of our customer base and we continue to shift our investment toward these online solutions."
Stock Repurchase Program
     Intuit repurchased $250 million of its common stock in the third quarter, bringing repurchases to a total of $1.1 billion in the current fiscal year. At the end of the third quarter, the company had $890 million remaining on the current authorization.
Forward-looking Guidance
     For the fourth quarter the company expects:
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 5
     The company revised its full-year guidance ranges. For fiscal year 2011 the company now expects:
     Segment results for Small Business and Consumer Tax were also narrowed for the full year:
Conference Call Information
     Intuit executives will discuss the financial results on a conference call at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time today. To hear the call, dial 866-837-9780 in the United States or 703-639-1418 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. The conference call can also be heard live via webcast at . Prepared remarks for the call will be available on Intuit's website after the call ends.
http://investors.intuit.com/events.cfm
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 6
Replay Information
     A replay of the conference call will also be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1528212.
     The audio webcast will remain available on Intuit's website for one week after the conference call.
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses; financial institutions, including banks and credit unions; consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Intuit Financial Services helps banks and credit unions grow by providing on-demand solutions and services that make it easier for consumers and businesses to manage their money.
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $3.5 billion in its fiscal year 2010. The company has approximately 7,700 employees with major offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, India and other locations. More information can be found at .
www.intuit.com
     Intuit and the Intuit logo, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E. A copy of the press release issued by Intuit today can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's future expected financial results; expectations regarding growth from connected services and from current or future products and services; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2011; and all of the statements under the heading "Forward-looking Guidance."
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: inherent difficulty in predicting consumer behavior; difficulties in receiving, processing, or filing customer tax submissions; consumers
 
Intuit Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 7
may not respond as we expected to our advertising and promotional activities; product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities or public policy affecting the preparation and filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully innovate and introduce new offerings and business models to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future offerings may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems may impair the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results; as we upgrade and consolidate our customer facing applications and supporting information technology infrastructure, any problems with these implementations could interfere with our ability to deliver our offerings; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information and data could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; if we are unable to develop, manage and maintain critical third party business relationships, our business may be adversely affected; increased government regulation of our businesses may harm our operating results; if we fail to process transactions effectively or fail to adequately protect against potential fraudulent activities, our revenue and earnings may be harmed; any significant offering quality problems or delays in our offerings could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; the continuing global economic downturn may continue to impact consumer and small business spending, financial institutions and tax filings, which could negatively affect our revenue and profitability; year-over-year changes in the total number of tax filings that are submitted to government agencies due to economic conditions or otherwise may result in lost revenue opportunities; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings; our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operation; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at http://investors.intuit.com. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of May 19, 2011, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these materials.
 
 
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following this Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
The accompanying press release dated May 19, 2011 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Table B and Table E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
We exclude the following items from all of our non-GAAP financial measures:
We also exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share:
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when planning and forecasting and when assessing the performance of the organization, our individual operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expense, amortization, or the other excluded items and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison by management and investors of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods.
The following are descriptions of the items we exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures.
. These consist of non-cash expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When considering the impact of equity awards, we place greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with those awards.
Share-based compensation expenses
. When we acquire an entity, we are required by GAAP to record the fair values of the intangible assets of the entity and amortize them over their useful lives. Amortization of acquired technology in cost of revenue includes amortization of software and other technology assets of acquired entities. Amortization of other acquired intangible assets in operating expenses includes amortization of assets such as customer lists, covenants not to compete and trade names.
Amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the professional fees we incur to complete business combinations. These include investment banking, legal and accounting fees.
Professional fees for business combinations
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures gains and losses that we record when we sell or impair available-for-sale debt securities and other investments.
Gains and losses on debt securities and other investments
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the income tax effects of the items described above. In addition, the effects of one-time income tax adjustments recorded in a specific quarter for GAAP purposes are reflected on a forecasted basis in our non-GAAP financial measures. This is consistent with how we plan, forecast and evaluate our operating results.
Income tax effects of excluded items and discrete tax items
. From time to time, we sell or otherwise dispose of selected operations as we adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our strategic goals. In accordance with GAAP, we segregate the operating results of discontinued operations as well as gains and losses on the sale of these discontinued operations from continuing operations on our GAAP statements of operations but continue to include them in GAAP net income or loss and net income or loss per share. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating results and gains and losses on the sale of discontinued operations
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments, and sales of available-for-sale debt securities and other investments.


