FILE:INTU/INTU-8K-20110217161053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On February 17, 2011, Intuit Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2011 and provided forward-looking guidance. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.01.
     The information in this Report and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
      . (Nasdaq: INTU) today announced financial results for its second fiscal quarter, which ended Jan. 31.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.  Feb. 17, 2011
Intuit Inc
Second-quarter Highlights:
     Intuit also increased fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share guidance to reflect the extension of the research and development tax credit, which will lower the company's
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 2
effective tax rate. Intuit now expects non-GAAP diluted earnings per share growth of 14 to 18 percent.
Note: GAAP diluted EPS for Q2 FY10 included $0.10 for the gain on the sale of the Intuit Real Estate Solutions business.
Company Perspective
     "Intuit delivered strong financial results for the fiscal second quarter," said Brad Smith, Intuit's president and chief executive officer. "Reiterating our full-year guidance demonstrates our confidence in our growth strategy and our ability to execute for the remainder of the tax season and the fiscal year.
     "Small Business continues to perform well, with growth accelerating from last quarter. Our core business is growing, and our connected services are driving customer acquisition and revenue growth. We are capitalizing on secular tailwinds as customer preferences move toward more digital, connected services in the small business sector.
     "We believe that later acceptance of tax returns will simply mean a shorter tax season as filers are getting started later. This is supported by the unit growth acceleration we've seen in TurboTax Online in February. The move toward do-it-yourself digital tax solutions continues as a macro trend, and it basically comes down to staying laser focused on execution. All indications are that we're competing effectively for market share, and we have confidence in our game plan for the balance of the season," Smith said.
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 3
Quarterly Business Segment Results and Highlights
     Total revenue grew 15 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Growth in small business was led by strength in Financial Management Solutions and Employee Management Solutions.
Small Business Group
Consumer Tax
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 4
Accounting Professionals
Other Businesses
Share Repurchase Program
     "We're executing against the right strategic plan, and that's evident in the numbers," said Neil Williams, chief financial officer. "We continue to manage the company for long-term, double-digit organic revenue growth. We're focused on allocating capital in the most effective ways, using the cash we generate to grow the business and return value to shareholders. I'm pleased with our strong performance this quarter and believe we are well positioned to succeed in the second half of the year."
Forward-looking Guidance
     For the third-quarter the company expects:
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 5
     Intuit also reiterated its full-year fiscal 2011 revenue and operating income guidance. Intuit increased fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share guidance to reflect the extension of the research and development tax credit. For the fiscal year ending July 31, Intuit expects:
Conference Call Information
     Intuit executives will discuss the financial results on a conference call today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time. To hear the call, dial 866-238-1645 in the United States or 703-639-1163 from international locations. No reservation or access code is needed. The conference call can also be heard live via webcast at Prepared remarks for the call will be available on Intuit's website after the call ends.
http://investors.intuit.com/events.cfm.
Replay information
     A replay of the conference call will also be available for one week by calling 888-266-2081, or 703-925-2533 from international locations. The access code for this call is 1511656.
     The audio webcast will remain available on Intuit's website for one week after the conference call.
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 6
About Intuit Inc.
     Intuit Inc. is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small and mid-sized businesses; financial institutions, including banks and credit unions; consumers and accounting professionals. Its flagship products and services, including QuickBooks, Quicken and TurboTax, simplify small business management and payroll processing, personal finance, and tax preparation and filing. ProSeries and Lacerte are Intuit's leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. Intuit Financial Services helps banks and credit unions grow by providing on-demand solutions and services that make it easier for consumers and businesses to manage their money.
     Founded in 1983, Intuit had annual revenue of $3.5 billion in its fiscal year 2010. The company has approximately 7,700 employees with major offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, India and other locations. More information can be found at
www.intuit.com.
     Intuit, the Intuit logo and QuickBooks, among others, are registered trademarks and/or registered service marks of Intuit Inc. in the United States and other countries.
About Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include non-GAAP financial measures. For a description of these non-GAAP financial measures, including the reasons management uses each measure, and reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, please see the section of the accompanying tables titled "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" as well as the related Table B and Table E. A copy of the press release issued by Intuit today can be found on the investor relations page of Intuit's Web site.
Cautions About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including forecasts of Intuit's future expected financial results; forecasts of future expected financial results for its Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals group; its prospects for the business in fiscal 2011; its prospects for the current tax season; its belief that tax revenue and operating income (GAAP and NonGAAP) will shift to its third fiscal quarter, and all of the statements under the heading "Forward-looking Guidance."
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, the following: inherent difficulty in predicting consumer behavior; further delay in the IRS's ability to accept e-filed returns for certain tax filers; difficulties in receiving, processing, or filing customer tax submissions; consumers may not respond as we expected to our advertising and promotional activities; product introductions and price competition from our competitors can have unpredictable negative effects on our revenue, profitability and market position; governmental encroachment in our tax businesses or other governmental activities or public policy affecting the preparation and filing of tax returns could negatively affect our operating results and market position; we may not be able to successfully innovate and introduce new offerings and business models to meet our growth and profitability objectives, and current and future offerings may not adequately address customer needs and may not achieve broad market acceptance, which could harm our operating results and financial condition; business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems may impair the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results; as we upgrade and consolidate our customer facing applications and supporting information technology infrastructure, any problems with these implementations could interfere with our ability to deliver our offerings; any failure to properly use and protect personal customer information and data could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; if we are unable to develop, manage and maintain critical third party business relationships, our business may be adversely affected; increased government regulation of our businesses may harm our operating results; if we fail to process transactions
 
Intuit Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Page 7
effectively or fail to adequately protect against potential fraudulent activities, our revenue and earnings may be harmed; any significant offering quality problems or delays in our offerings could harm our revenue, earnings and reputation; our participation in the Free File Alliance may result in lost revenue opportunities and cannibalization of our traditional paid franchise; the continuing global economic downturn may continue to impact consumer and small business spending, financial institutions and tax filings, which could negatively affect our revenue and profitability; year-over-year changes in the total number of tax filings that are submitted to government agencies due to economic conditions or otherwise may result in lost revenue opportunities; our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and the timing of our revenue between quarters is difficult to predict, which may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; our financial position may not make repurchasing shares advisable or we may issue additional shares in an acquisition causing our number of outstanding shares to grow; our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings; our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions; our use of significant amounts of debt to finance acquisitions or other activities could harm our financial condition and results of operation; and litigation involving intellectual property, antitrust, shareholder and other matters may increase our costs. More details about these and other risks that may impact our business are included in our Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 and in our other SEC filings. You can locate these reports through our website at http://investors.intuit.com. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of Feb. 17, 2011, and we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement or other information in these materials.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
 
 
See "About Non-GAAP Financial Measures" immediately following this Table E for information on these measures, the items excluded from the most directly comparable GAAP measures in arriving at non-GAAP financial measures, and the reasons management uses each measure and excludes the specified amounts in arriving at each non-GAAP financial measure.
 
The accompanying press release dated February 17, 2011 contains non-GAAP financial measures. Table B and Table E reconcile the non-GAAP financial measures in that press release to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same names and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar names that are used by other companies.
We compute non-GAAP financial measures using the same consistent method from quarter to quarter and year to year. We may consider whether other significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
We exclude the following items from all of our non-GAAP financial measures:
We also exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share:
We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Intuit's operating results primarily because they exclude amounts that we do not consider part of ongoing operating results when planning and forecasting and when assessing the performance of the organization, our individual operating segments or our senior management. Segment managers are not held accountable for share-based compensation expense, amortization, or the other excluded items and, accordingly, we exclude these amounts from our measures of segment performance. We believe that our non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate the comparison by management and investors of results for current periods and guidance for future periods with results for past periods.
The following are descriptions of the items we exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures.
. These consist of non-cash expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and purchases of common stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When considering the impact of equity awards, we place greater emphasis on overall shareholder dilution rather than the accounting charges associated with those awards.
Share-based compensation expenses
. When we acquire an entity, we are required by GAAP to record the fair values of the intangible assets of the entity and amortize them over their useful lives. Amortization of acquired technology in cost of revenue includes amortization of software and other technology assets of acquired entities. Amortization of other acquired intangible assets in operating expenses includes amortization of assets such as customer lists, covenants not to compete and trade names.
Amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the professional fees we incur to complete business combinations. These include investment banking, legal and accounting fees.
Professional fees for business combinations
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures gains and losses that we record when we sell or impair marketable equity securities and other investments.
Gains and losses on marketable equity securities and other investments
. We exclude from our non-GAAP financial measures the income tax effects of the items described above. In addition, the effects of one-time income tax adjustments recorded in a specific quarter for GAAP purposes are reflected on a forecasted basis in our non-GAAP financial measures. This is consistent with how we plan, forecast and evaluate our operating results.
Income tax effects of excluded items and discrete tax items
. From time to time, we sell or otherwise dispose of selected operations as we adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our strategic goals. In accordance with GAAP, we segregate the operating results of discontinued operations as well as gains and losses on the sale of these discontinued operations from continuing operations on our GAAP statements of operations but continue to include them in GAAP net income or loss and net income or loss per share. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Operating results and gains and losses on the sale of discontinued operations
The reconciliations of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in Table E include all information reasonably available to Intuit at the date of this press release. These tables include adjustments that we can reasonably predict. Events that could cause the reconciliation to change include acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, goodwill and other asset impairments, and sales of marketable equity securities and other investments.


