Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity, and results of operations. The information below has been adjusted to reflect the impacts of the restatement of the Companys financial results which is more fully described in the Explanatory Note on page 2 of this Form 10 K/A and in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings included in this Form 10 K/A and does not reflect any subsequent information or events occurring after the date of the Original Filing. This Annual Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including restructuring charges, availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others. Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to: the level of our revenues; competition from existing competitors (such as DBS providers) and new competitors (such as telephone companies and high speed wireless providers) entering our franchise areas; demand for and growth of our digital video, high speed data and voice services, which are impacted by competition from other services and the other factors discussed herein; the cost of programming and industry conditions; the regulatory environment in which we operate; developments in the government investigations and litigation related to past practices of the Company in connection with grants of stock options and SARs; developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements; the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described under Legal Matters; general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate; demand for advertising time and space; our ability to obtain content for our programming businesses; the level of our capital expenditures; the level of our expenses; future acquisitions and dispositions of assets; the demand for our programming among other cable television and satellite providers and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television and satellite providers; market demand for new services; whether any pending uncompleted transactions, if any, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all); any decision by our Board of Directors to pay a special dividend, including the impact of the additional debt we would need to incur to fund the dividend; the level of exit costs we will incur in completing the shutdown of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business; other risks and uncertainties inherent in the cable television business, the programming and entertainment businesses and our other businesses; 26 financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate; and the factors described in our filings with the SEC, including under the sections entitled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained therein and herein. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws. 27 CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION Summary Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including capital market characteristics, the effectiveness of direct competition, the amount of outstanding indebtedness, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers. Telecommunications Services Our Telecommunications Services segment derives revenues principally through monthly charges to subscribers of our video, high speed data and voice services. These monthly charges include cable television programming, as well as, in many cases, equipment rental, pay per view and video on demand charges, high speed data and voice services. Revenue increases are derived from rate increases, increases in the number of subscribers to these services, upgrades by video customers in the level of programming package to which they subscribe, and additional services sold to our existing subscribers. We also derive revenues from the sale of advertising time available to cable television systems. Revenues from advertising vary based upon the number and demographics of our subscribers who view the programming carried on our cable television systems. Our cable television video services, which accounted for 48% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, face competition from the direct broadcast satellite business. There are two major providers of DBS service in the United States, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have. We compete with these DBS competitors by bundling our service offerings with products that the DBS companies cannot efficiently provide at this time, such as high speed data service and voice service carried over the cable distribution plant, as well as by providing interactive and on demand services that are currently unavailable to a DBS subscriber, such as interactive gaming and video on demand. As discussed in greater detail below, if and when telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T, Inc. begin to provide video services on a broad scale in our service areas, they could also present a serious competitive challenge to our video services. Our high speed data services business, which accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, faces competition from DSL providers. These providers have become increasingly aggressive in their pricing strategies in recent years, and customers may decide that a reduced price is more important to them than the superior speed that cable modems provide. In addition, with approximately 50% of our basic video subscribers now subscribing to our high speed data service, opportunities to expand that base at the current pace may be limited. The recent gains in cable modem penetration may therefore not be indicative of the results we achieve in the future. Our consumer voice offering, which accounted for approximately 3% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, is competitive with incumbent offerings primarily on the basis of pricing, where unlimited United States, Canada and Puerto Rico long distance, regional and local calling, together with certain features for which the incumbent providers charge extra, are offered at one low price. To the extent the incumbents, who have financial resources that exceed those of the Company, decide to meet our pricing and or features or reduce their pricing, future growth and success of this business may be impaired. The regulatory framework for cable modem service and voice service is being developed and changes in how we are regulated, including increased regulation, may affect our competitive position. The telephone companies continue constructing systems designed to provide video programming as well as voice and data services to residential customers in parts of our service area, and have announced plans for construction in additional parts. Verizon has obtained authorizations to provide video programming in several localities in New York and has begun doing so in some areas. AT&T has announced its intent to provide video programming services in Connecticut and is seeking an exemption from the states cable 28 franchise and other cable regulatory requirements. The existence of a new, broadly deployed network with the capability of providing video, voice and data services, particularly one subject to a lesser regulatory burden, could present a significant competitive challenge to the Company. Lightpath, our commercial telephone and commercial broadband business, operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies both incumbent local exchange companies, other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies. To the extent that dominant market leaders decide to reduce their prices, future success of the Company may be impaired. The trend in business communications has been shifting from a wired voice medium to a wireless, data medium. Should this trend accelerate dramatically, future growth of Lightpath may be negatively impacted. Rainbow In our Rainbow segment, which accounted for 16% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, we earn revenues in two principal ways. First, we receive affiliate fee payments from operators of cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators. These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi year affiliation agreements with those companies. The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks. The second principal source of revenues in this segment is from advertising. Under our agreements with cable and satellite operators, we have the right to sell a specific amount of advertising time on our programming networks. Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees. This is because most of our advertising is sold on a short term basis, not under long term contracts. Our advertising revenues also vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services. We seek to grow our revenues in the Rainbow segment by increasing the number of distributors that carry our services and the number of subscribers to cable systems and satellite services that receive our programming. We refer to this as our penetration. AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than newer, less penetrated services. In negotiating for increased carriage, we may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain numbers of additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees, discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period. We seek to increase our advertising revenues through intensified marketing and by airing an increased number of minutes of national advertising but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues are directly related to the overall distribution, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services. The principal goals in this segment are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our national services. To do this we must continue to contract for and produce high quality, attractive programming. Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television operators and satellite providers. This increased concentration increases the power of those operators and providers, and could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration. In addition, this concentration gives those distributors greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements. Moreover, as a result of this concentration the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would be more significant. In December 2003, Regional Programming Partners completed the acquisition of the 50% interests in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago that it did not already own in a transaction that was 29 accounted for as a purchase. As a result, as of December 18, 2003, we began consolidating the results of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago. The consolidation increased the revenues and expenses in our Rainbow segment in 2004, although the amount of revenues that the Rainbow segment received from Fox Sports Net Chicago declined in 2005 as a result of the termination by two of its significant customers that declined to carry Fox Sports Net Chicago and to payments not being made to us due to an ongoing dispute over an existing affiliation agreement with another cable operator. In April 2005, the Company restructured its Regional Programming Partnership with News Corporation. As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company now also owns 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago as well as 50% of Fox Sports Net New England. The Company continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area. In addition, the $150 million promissory notes payable to News Corporation and accrued interest of $2.9 million on those notes (incurred in connection with Regional Programming Partners acquisition of the 50% interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area) were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them. In connection with the restructuring, the Company no longer consolidates the operating results or the assets and liabilities of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida. The assets and liabilities of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida are reflected on the Companys consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2004 as assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale. The operating results of these businesses, excluding certain allocations of general and administrative costs from the Company that were not eliminated upon the sale of these businesses, have been reported in discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Beginning in the first quarter of 2005, the VOOM HD Networks have been included in the Rainbow segment. These channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment which was discontinued. Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis. See Note 4 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion regarding agreements entered into with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the Companys VOOM HD Networks. Madison Square Garden Madison Square Garden (MSG), which accounted for 16% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, consists of professional sports teams (principally the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL), along with the Hartford Wolf Pack of the American Hockey League and the New York Liberty of the Womens National Basketball Association), the MSG Networks sports programming business, and an entertainment business. It also operates the Madison Square Garden Arena, Radio City Music Hall, the Hartford Civic Center and Rentschler Field (sports and entertainment venues in Connecticut), and faces competitive challenges unique to these activities. We derive revenues in this segment primarily from the MSG Networks (see below), the sale of tickets, including luxury box rentals, to sporting and entertainment events, from rental rights fees paid to this segment by promoters that present events at our entertainment venues and the sports teams share of league wide distributions of national television rights fees and royalties. We also derive revenue from the sale of advertising at our venues, from food, beverage and merchandise sales at our venues and from the licensing of our trademarks. MSG Networks derives its revenues from affiliate fees paid by cable television and satellite providers, sales of advertising, and from rights fees paid to this segment by broadcasters and programming services that telecast events of third party sports teams which are under contract with MSG Networks. This segments financial performance is related to the performance of all the teams presented and the attractiveness of its entertainment events. 30 MSGs short term agreement with Time Warner Cable, Inc. expired on March 7, 2005 and Time Warner Cable discontinued carriage of MSG Network and FSN New York at such time. On May 9, 2005, Madison Square Garden and Time Warner Cable reached a multiyear agreement on key rate and positioning terms for carriage of MSG Network and FSN New York and the parties subsequently entered into definitive documentation reflecting such agreement, which was retroactive to January 1, 2004. In 2005, MSG Networks entered into a new contract with another affiliate which was also retroactive to January 1, 2004. The combined retroactive impact on Madison Square Gardens revenues in 2005 for these contracts was approximately $17.8 million. Our sports teams financial success is dependent on their ability to generate advertising sales, paid attendance, luxury box rentals, and food, beverage and merchandise sales. To a large extent, the ability of the teams to build excitement among fans, and therefore produce higher revenue streams, depends on the teams winning performance, which generates regular season and playoff attendance and luxury box rentals, and which supports increases in prices charged for tickets, luxury box rentals, and advertising placement. Each teams success is dependent on its ability to acquire highly competitive personnel. The governing bodies of the NBA and the NHL have the power and authority to take certain actions that they deem to be in the best interest of their respective leagues, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing the professional sports teams results of operations. Effective September 16, 2004 the NHL commenced a lockout of the players in support of its attempt to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the National Hockey League Players Association (NHL Players Association). The parties failed to reach an agreement after several negotiating sessions and on February 16, 2005, the NHL announced that it had cancelled the 2004 2005 season. On July 22, 2005, the NHL and NHL Players Association executed a 6 year collective bargaining agreement (NHL CBA) ending the lockout. The NHL Players Association has the right to terminate the NHL CBA after 4 years or extend it to 7 years. The new NHL CBA includes an automatic 24% salary reduction for existing player contracts and establishes a team salary cap for each season based on a percentage of hockey related revenues. The team salary cap for the 2005 2006 season is approximately $39 million. The new NHL CBA also provides for a revenue sharing system by which the top ten teams in terms of gross preseason and regular season revenue (as defined in the NHL CBA), will be required to contribute to a fund which will be distributed to other teams under certain circumstances. The Company currently expects that its NHL team will be one of the top ten revenue teams in the NHL in 2005 2006 and will be required to contribute approximately $4.4 million to the revenue sharing fund. On July 29, 2005, the NBA and the National Basketball Players Association entered into a new 6 year Collective Bargaining Agreement (NBA CBA) with the NBAs option to extend it to 7 years. Among other changes, the new NBA CBA changed the way luxury tax on player salaries is calculated. Under the expired NBA CBA, if the relationship of league wide player salaries to defined league wide basketball related income (BRI) exceeded a specified percentage, teams whose salaries exceeded this specified percentage of BRI (team tax trigger) were required to pay a dollar for dollar luxury tax to the extent its salaries exceeded the team tax trigger. Under the new NBA CBA, teams will pay a dollar for dollar luxury tax each year in which they exceed the team tax trigger, regardless of the relationship of league wide player salaries to BRI. While Madison Square Garden did not pay a luxury tax for the 2004 2005 season, it did pay approximately $35 million for the 2003 2004 season. Based on the new NBA CBA, Madison Square Garden anticipates paying a luxury tax for the 2005 2006 season (the amount is currently estimated to be approximately $35 million). In the third quarter of 2005, Madison Square Garden accrued $12.9 million in luxury tax for a player who had previously been waived but whose salary for the 2005 2006 and 2006 2007 seasons will nevertheless be subject to luxury tax under the new NBA CBA. When the season began, in the fourth quarter of 2005, Madison Square Garden began accruing its estimated luxury tax for its other players for the 2005 2006 season. The success of our MSG Networks sports programming business is affected by our ability to secure desired programming of professional sports teams, in addition to our proprietary programming. The continued carriage and success of the teams that are telecast by us will impact our revenues from 31 distribution and from the rates charged for affiliation and advertising, as well as the ability to attract advertisers. In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of its broadcast rights agreement with MSG Networks. The termination of the rights agreement was effective after the end of the 2005 baseball season. Although the termination of the rights agreement will have a negative impact on Madison Square Gardens revenue, we do not believe that it will have a significant impact on Madison Square Gardens results of operations. Our entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Radio City Christmas Spectacular and our touring Christmas shows, as well as availability of, and our venues ability to attract, concerts, family shows and events. The dependence of this segments revenues on its sports teams and Christmas shows make it seasonal with a disproportionate share of its revenues and operating income being derived in the fourth quarter of each year. Stock Option Related Matters We have incurred substantial expenses in 2006 for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the Companys voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs, the preparation of the restated financial statements, stock option related litigation, and the investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with these matters. Critical Accounting Policies In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The significant accounting policies which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Impairment of Long Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets: The Companys long lived assets at December 31, 2005 include excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired (goodwill) of approximately $1.0 billion, approximately $1.6 billion of other intangible assets ($901.0 million of which are indefinite lived intangibles) and approximately $3.9 billion of property, plant and equipment. Such assets accounted for approximately 66% of the Companys consolidated total assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination. The impairment test for other indefinite lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. For other long lived assets, including intangibles that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indicator of potential impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated 32 is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value. In assessing the recoverability of the Companys goodwill and other long lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and the determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. For the Telecommunications Services segment, these valuations also include assumptions for average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin and market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, among other assumptions. For the Madison Square Garden and Rainbow segments, these valuations also include assumptions for projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers, number of events (MSG segment only), access to sports programming and film rights and the cost of such programming and film rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell out rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions. If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges related to our long lived assets. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations of the Companys reporting units on the impairment calculation for indefinite lived intangibles, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical decrease would have no impact on the impairment analysis for any of the Companys reporting units. Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on the straight line basis over the respective license periods. We periodically review the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If we determine that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, we would record a write off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films. In 2004, the Company recorded impairment losses totaling approximately $354.8 million related to its decision to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS segment of its operations. The Company recorded impairment charges of $90.5 million included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long lived assets and other indefinite lived intangible assets and $75.8 million included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts relating to its VOOM HD Networks programming service. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business of $155.4 million reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long lived assets and goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets and a charge of $33.1 million representing the write off of equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations. In addition to the Rainbow DBS segment impairment losses, we recorded impairment losses of approximately $0.7 million, $0.3 million and $17.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, included in technical and operating expense, representing the impairment of certain film and programming contracts and $8.3 million and $2.4 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, included in depreciation and amortization related to certain other long lived assets and intangibles primarily within our theater operations and Rainbow segment. 33 Useful Lives of Finite Lived Intangible Assets: The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation relationships, affiliate agreements, advertiser relationships, season ticket holder relationships and suite holder contracts and relationships as a result of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring transaction with News Corporation in April 2005. In addition, the Company has also recognized intangible assets for affiliate agreements and advertiser relationships as a result of the July 2003 repurchase of MGMs 20% interest in each of AMC, WE and IFC and the repurchase of NBCs interests in Rainbow Media Holdings in various transactions in 2001 and 2002. The Company has determined that such intangible assets have finite lives and has estimated those lives to be 4 to 11 years for affiliate agreements, 24 years for affiliation relationships, 7 to 10 years for advertiser relationships, 10 to 15 years for season ticket holder relationships and 3 to 11 years for suite holder contracts and relationships. At December 31, 2005, the carrying values, net of accumulated amortization, were $476.7 million for affiliate agreements and affiliation relationships, $42.7 million for broadcast rights and other agreements, $72.8 million for advertiser relationships, $70.4 million for season ticket holder relationships, $18.7 million for suite holder contracts and relationships and $57.6 million for other intangibles. The amount we originally allocated in purchase accounting to the affiliate agreements and affiliation relationships finite lived intangibles in our consolidated financial statements is the estimated aggregate fair value of those affiliate agreements, affiliation relationships and the related customer relationships. The useful lives for the affiliate agreements were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average lives of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements. The Company has been successful in renewing its affiliate agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliate agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the future. However, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 4 to 11 years for affiliate agreements and 24 years for affiliation relationships is appropriate depending on the nature of the underlying intangible asset. There have been periods when an existing affiliate agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewal. In one case during 2004, there was a 10 day period in which an affiliate was restricted from carrying certain of the Companys sports and entertainment networks because the parties had not reached agreement on contract renewal terms. We reached a short term agreement with the affiliate at the end of the 10 day period and that affiliate continuously carried the networks pursuant to successive subsequent short term agreements through March 7, 2005. However, we were unable to reach an agreement with this affiliate at expiration on March 7, 2005, and this affiliate discontinued carriage of certain of the Companys sports networks. On May 9, 2005, we reached a multi year agreement on key rate and positioning terms for carriage of these sports networks and the parties subsequently entered into definitive documentation reflecting such agreement. See Impairment of Long Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets above. If an affiliate were to cease carrying the service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliate agreement. If the Company were to renew an affiliate agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under Impairment of Long Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets for the asset group containing that intangible. The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliate agreement remained appropriate. Based on December 31, 2005 carrying values, 34 if the estimated life of all affiliate agreements and affiliation relationships were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization in the year ending December 31, 2006 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $7.1 million. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets: Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Companys future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Companys ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income to allow for the utilization of its net operating loss carry forwards and deductible temporary differences and tax planning strategies. If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly. At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $6.5 million, $14.0 million and $28.0 million, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards. During 2005, certain state net operating loss carry forwards expired prior to utilization. The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired net operating loss carry forwards had been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $7.0 million. Plant and Equipment: Costs incurred in the construction of the Companys cable television system, including line extensions to, and rebuild of, the Companys hybrid fiber coaxial infrastructure and costs incurred in the construction of the Companys headend facilities are capitalized. These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities. The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities. These costs are depreciated over 12 years based on the estimated life of the plant, and headend facilities are depreciated over the estimated life of the specific component, ranging from 4 years for certain electronics to 15 years for tower sites. Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred. Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized. These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities. In addition, on site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized. The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity. New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively. The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up and down grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred. Certain of these capitalized costs are based on estimates of activity levels and other historical statistics. These estimates are evaluated at least semi annually, and any changes that result, which may be significant, are reflected in the results of operations in the period in which the evaluations are performed. 35 Benefit Plans: The Company utilizes actuarial methods required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, to account for the Companys CHOICE Cash Balance Retirement Plan (the CSC Plan) and the Madison Square Garden Retirement Plan (the MSG Plan) (collectively, the Plans). The actuarial methods for the Plans require numerous assumptions to calculate the net periodic pension benefit expense and the related pension benefit obligation for the Plans. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including the discount rate and expected long term rate of return on plan assets. Material changes in the pension costs of the Plans may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions, changes in the number of the CSC Plan participants (the MSG Plan is frozen and no longer admits new participants), changes in the level of benefits provided, changes in asset levels and changes in legislation. Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and managements best judgment regarding future expectations. Since pension liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption. The discount rate is subject to change each year, consistent with changes in applicable high quality, long term corporate bond indices. Based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for the Plans, we refer to applicable bond yields (such as Moodys Aaa Baa Corporate Bonds) and the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model (which is developed by examining the yields on selected highly rated corporate bonds), to select a rate at which we believe the Plans benefits could be effectively settled. Based on the published rates and the results from the Buck Consultants Discount Rate Model as of December 31, 2005, we used a discount rate of 5.75%, a decline of 25 basis points from the 6.00% rate used as of December 31, 2004 for the Plans. For the year ended December 31, 2005, this had the effect of increasing the CSC Plans projected pension benefit obligation by approximately $2.2 million and for 2006, this has the effect of increasing pension service cost for the CSC Plan by approximately $0.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, this had the effect of increasing our projected pension benefit obligation by approximately $2.9 million for the MSG Plan and for 2006, this has the effect of increasing pension service cost for the MSG Plan by approximately $0.2 million. The expected long term rate of return on the Plans assets should, over time, approximate the actual long term returns on Plan assets. The expected long term rate of return on the Plans assets is selected by taking into account the targeted asset mix of the Plans, and whether the Plans assets are actively managed. The forward looking assumptions underlying our expected long term rate of return are developed by our actuary and reviewed by us for reasonableness. The return and risk assumptions consider such factors as historical and anticipated long term performance of individual asset classes, risk premium for active management based on qualitative and quantitative analysis and correlations of the asset classes that comprise the asset portfolio. The expected rate of return on the Plans assets will remain unchanged at 8.0% for 2006. A 25 basis point change in the expected long term rate of return would result in approximately a $0.3 million and $0.1 million change in the CSC Plans and MSG Plans expense, respectively. Generally accepted accounting principles include mechanisms that serve to limit the volatility in our earnings which otherwise would result from recording changes in the value of plan assets and benefit obligations in our consolidated financial statements in the periods in which those changes occur. For example, while the expected long term rate of return on the Plans assets should, over time, approximate the actual long term returns, differences between the expected and actual returns could occur in any given year. These differences contribute to the deferred actuarial gains or losses, which are then amortized over time. During years 2005 and 2004 for the CSC Plan and in 2005 for the MSG Plan, the Plans did not achieve their expected rate of return on assets, causing expected returns to exceed actual returns. Declining discount rates, and these lower than anticipated asset returns resulted in a lower than expected funded position for the Plans. At December 31, 2005, the CSC Plan had a projected benefit obligation of $133.8 million and assets of $116.6 million, after taking into account $26.0 million in contributions made in 2005. Contributions of 36 $6.8 million will be required for the CSC Plan in 2006. The Company currently expects to contribute the minimum required contribution in 2006. Pension expense was $23.3 million, $23.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively for the CSC Plan. Pension expense for the CSC Plan for 2006 is estimated to be approximately $23.8 million. The 2006 pension expense estimate incorporates the 2006 assumptions described above, as well as the impact of increased CSC Plan assets resulting from our anticipated contributions of $6.8 million to be made in 2006. At December 31, 2005, the MSG Plan had a projected benefit obligation of $68.1 million and assets of $39.3 million, after taking into account $7.5 million in contributions made in fiscal 2005. The Company is currently not required to make a minimum contribution to the MSG Plan in 2006, however, we expect to make a discretionary contribution of $3.8 million to reduce future contribution requirements. Pension expense was $3.7 million and $4.3 million for years 2005 and 2004, respectively, for the MSG Plan. Pension expense for 2006 is estimated to be approximately $4.0 million. The 2006 pension expense estimate incorporates the 2006 assumptions described above, as well as the impact of increased MSG Plan assets resulting from our anticipated contributions of $3.8 million to be made in 2006. Certain Transactions The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 2005 Transactions. In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured the Regional Programming Partnership. As a result, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company also owns 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago as well as 50% of Fox Sports Net New England and continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area. In April 2005, subsidiaries of the Company entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high definition television programming service, subject to the closing of the sale of our satellite (Rainbow 1) to EchoStar which occurred in November 2005. Under those arrangements, EchoStar was initially distributed a portion of the VOOM HD Networks programming service and, beginning in 2006 began carrying all 15 of the channels (10 were available at December 31, 2005) included in the programming service. In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500 million in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings equity by the Company. Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100 million per year, up to a maximum of $500 million in the aggregate (which $100 million annual amount may be reduced to no less than $38 million per year, to the extent that the number of offered channels is less than 21) on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future. 2004 Transactions. In 2004, Rainbow DBS invested approximately $85.0 million in exchange for a substantial interest in an entity that had acquired licenses from the FCC to provide multichannel video distribution and data service in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States. In July 2004, Northcoast Communications, a 49.9% owned subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of its wholly owned subsidiary, Cleveland PCS, to an unaffiliated entity. The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale. 37 2003 Transactions. In March 2003, the Company transferred the stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc., to GBO Electronics Acquisition, LLC. In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of PCS licenses to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763.0 million in cash. Of the proceeds, approximately $51.0 million was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt. The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company. In July 2003, the Company repurchased MGMs 20% interest in each of AMC, The Independent Film Channel and WE: Womens Entertainment for $500.0 million. In December 2003, Regional Programming Partners acquired News Corporations 50% interest in each of Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area pursuant to News Corporations exercise of its contractual put right for $150.0 million. 38 Results of Operations Cablevision Systems Corporation The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Increase % of Net % of Net (Decrease) Amount Revenues Amount Revenues in Net Income (As restated) (As restated) (dollars in thousands) Revenues, net $ 5,175,911 100% $ 4,750,037 100% $ 425,874 Operating expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,297,037 44 2,262,694 48 (34,343 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,292,645 25 1,192,338 25 (100,307 ) Other operating income (95,758 ) (2) (95,758 ) Restructuring charges (credits) (433 ) 151 584 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 1,084,304 21 1,137,940 24 53,636 Operating income 502,358 10 252,672 5 249,686 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (747,511 ) (14) (712,440 ) (15) (35,071 ) Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates 3,219 (12,997 ) 16,216 Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net 64,968 1 2,232 62,736 Gain (loss) on investments, net (138,312 ) (3) 134,598 3 (272,910 ) Write off of deferred financing costs (18,961 ) 18,961 Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net 119,180 2 (165,305 ) (3) 284,485 Loss on extinguishment of debt (78,571 ) (2) 78,571 Minority interests (5,034 ) (65,568 ) (1) 60,534 Miscellaneous, net 651 46 605 Loss from continuing operations before taxes (200,481 ) (4) (664,294 ) (14) 463,813 Income tax benefit 74,568 1 191,842 4 (117,274 ) Loss from continuing operations (125,913 ) (2) (472,452 ) (10) 346,539 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 215,233 4 (199,057 ) (4) 414,290 Income (loss) before extraordinary item 89,320 2 (671,509 ) (14) 760,829 Extraordinary loss on investment, net of taxes (7,436 ) 7,436 Net income (loss) $ 89,320 2% $ (678,945 ) (14)% $ 768,265 39 STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA (continued) Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (Increase) % of Net % of Net Decrease Amount Revenues Amount Revenues in Net Loss (As restated) (As restated) (dollars in thousands) Revenues, net $ 4,750,037 100% $ 4,023,209 100% $ 726,828 Operating expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,262,694 48 1,864,579 46 (398,115 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,192,338 25 1,094,380 27 (97,958 ) Other operating income (95,758 ) (2) (4,758 ) 91,000 Restructuring charges 151 10,725 10,574 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 1,137,940 24 1,042,850 26 (95,090 ) Operating income 252,672 5 15,433 237,239 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (712,440 ) (15) (604,769 ) (15) (107,671 ) Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates (12,997 ) 428,753 11 (441,750 ) Gain (loss) on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net 2,232 (13,644 ) 15,876 Gain on investments, net 134,598 3 235,857 6 (101,259 ) Write off of deferred financing costs (18,961 ) (388 ) (18,573 ) Loss on derivative contracts, net (165,305 ) (3) (208,323 ) (5) 43,018 Loss on extinguishment of debt (78,571 ) (2) (78,571 ) Minority interests (65,568 ) (1) (116,950 ) (3) 51,382 Miscellaneous, net 46 3,719 (3,673 ) Loss from continuing operations before taxes (664,294 ) (14) (260,312 ) (6) (403,982 ) Income tax benefit (expense) 191,842 4 (23,624 ) (1) 215,466 Loss from continuing operations (472,452 ) (10) (283,936 ) (7) (188,516 ) Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes (199,057 ) (4) (22,476 ) (1) (176,581 ) Loss before extraordinary item (671,509 ) (14) (306,412 ) (8) (365,097 ) Extraordinary loss on investment, net of taxes (7,436 ) (7,436 ) Net loss $ (678,945 ) (14)% $ (306,412 ) (8)% $ (372,533 ) 40 Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2005 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $425.9 million (9%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in revenue from high speed data and voice services $ 269.6 Higher recurring revenue from cable television services 159.7 Increases in video on demand and pay per view services revenue 27.2 Increase in AMC, IFC and WE revenues 34.1 Decreased revenue at Fox Sports Net Chicago (114.1 ) Decreased revenue in the other Rainbow programming businesses (14.9 ) Increase in Madison Square Gardens revenue 25.6 Other net increases, net of inter segment eliminations 38.7 $ 425.9 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization, (including impairments)) include primarily: cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per subscriber basis; network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections; contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel; programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses; and interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization, (including impairments)) for 2005 increased $34.3 million (2%) compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Film inventory and programming contracts impairment charges for VOOM HD Networks in 2004 $ (75.8 ) Decreased contractual rights, programming and production costs at Fox Sports Net Chicago (71.1 ) Net decrease in the Rainbow segments other contractual rights, programming and production costs (9.0 ) Decrease in Madison Square Gardens expenses (42.6 ) Increase in programming costs of the Telecommunications Services segment 114.5 Increase in network management and field service costs of the Telecommunications Services segment 67.6 Increase in call completion costs related to the voice services business of the Telecommunications Services segment 28.3 Other net increases, net of inter segment eliminations 22.4 $ 34.3 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 4% during 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 amounting to 2% of revenues. 41 Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, costs of facilities and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $100.3 million (8%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in general and administrative costs $ 43.0 Increase in sales and marketing costs 30.9 Increase in customer service costs of the Telecommunications Services segment 31.9 Increase in expenses relating to a long term incentive plan 10.5 Decrease in stock plan expenses (includes the effects of changes in stock price, the vesting of restricted shares and employee separations) (7.4 ) Other net decreases, net of inter segment eliminations (8.6 ) $ 100.3 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2005 compared to 2004, including and excluding the effects of the stock plan. Other operating income of $95.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 includes a $54.0 million cash payment received in connection with the New York Mets notice of termination of the broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden which was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season and a $41.8 million reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this broadcast rights agreement. Restructuring charges (credits) amounted to $(0.4) million in 2005 and $0.2 million in 2004. The 2005 amount is comprised of a $2.0 million credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 and 2002 restructuring plans, partially offset by $1.1 million of current severance costs in 2005 and $0.5 million of additional provisions for severance costs associated with the 2004 and 2003 restructuring plans. The 2004 amount is comprised of $5.9 million of severance costs, partially offset by a $5.7 million credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment and other costs relating to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 restructuring plans. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $53.6 million (5%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 of $78.5 million relating to certain Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.0 million related to certain assets of the VOOM HD Networks. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $36.9 million resulting primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets, impairment charges of $8.3 million recorded in 2005 relating primarily to certain long lived assets and intangibles within our theater operations and Rainbow segment and an increase in amortization expense as a result of an increase in amortizable intangibles resulting from the Regional Programming Partners transaction, partially offset by lower write off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets. 42 Net interest expense increased $35.1 million (5%) during 2005 compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase due to higher average debt balances $ 56.0 Increase due to higher average interest rates 52.2 Decrease in dividends on CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock due to their redemption in May 2004 (60.6 ) Higher interest income (8.4 ) Other net decreases (4.1 ) $ 35.1 Equity in net income of affiliates amounted to $3.2 million in 2005 compared to equity in net loss of affiliates of $13.0 million in 2004. Such amounts consist of the Companys share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company has varying minority ownership interests. Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests amounted to a gain of $65.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to a gain of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005 gain resulted primarily from the Company and News Corporations restructuring of their ownership of National Sports Partners and National Advertising Partners. The 2004 gain resulted from the sale of a minority owned affiliate interest. Gain (loss) on investments, net for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Increase (decrease) in the fair value of Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, AT&T, AT&T Wireless (2004 period only), Comcast, General Electric and Leapfrog common stock $ (138.5 ) $ 133.5 Income related to other investments 0.2 1.1 $ (138.3 ) $ 134.6 The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below. Write off of deferred financing costs of $19.0 million in 2004 consisted of costs written off in connection with the redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock and CSC Holdings 9 7/8% senior subordinated debentures aggregating $5.1 million and termination of certain of the Companys credit agreements aggregating $13.9 million. 43 Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Unrealized and realized gain (loss) due to the change in fair value of the Companys prepaid forward contracts relating to the AT&T, AT&T Wireless (2004 period only), Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric, Leapfrog and Adelphia Communications shares $ 135.7 $ (132.9 ) Loss on exchange right and put option related to CSC Holdings Series A Preferred Stock (31.7 ) Unrealized and realized losses on interest rate swap contracts (16.5 ) (0.7 ) $ 119.2 $ (165.3 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt of $78.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 represents premiums of $58.2 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock, $14.3 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings 9 7/8% senior subordinated debentures, and $6.1 million on the termination of the AT&T Wireless stock monetization contracts. Minority interests represent other parties shares of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 minority interests consisted of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) News Corporations 40% share of the net (income) loss of Regional Programming Partners $ 2.6 $ (72.5 ) News Corporations 40% share of the net income of Fox Sports Net Bay Area (6.9 ) Minority partners interest in DTV Norwich 7.9 Other (0.7 ) (1.0 ) $ (5.0 ) $ (65.6 ) Net miscellaneous income of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Companys investment securities, partially offset by other miscellaneous expenses. Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $74.6 million in 2005 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, state taxes and an adjustment to the state tax rate, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $6.5 million, and non deductible expenses. Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $191.8 million in 2004 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $14.0 million, non deductible preferred stock dividends, a non deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, a non deductible redemption premium related to the Series H and M Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate. 44 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and minority interests: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (dollars in millions) Net operating results of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business (including impairment charges of $188.5 million in 2004), net of taxes $ (60.8 ) $ (220.3 ) Net operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida, net of taxes 6.7 22.9 Gain on sale of Regional Programming Partners restructuring, net of taxes 266.8 Other, net of taxes 2.5 (1.7 ) $ 215.2 $ (199.1 ) Extraordinary loss, net of taxes of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from Rainbow DBSs investment in DTV Norwich, LLC and represents the excess of the purchase price over fair value of the acquired assets. Business Segments Results Cablevision Systems Corporation The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of our consumer video, high speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and Lightpaths commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks including the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business. The Company allocates general and administrative costs to each segment. Certain corporate level costs not specifically identifiable with our subsidiary operations are not allocated. The financial information for the segments does not include inter segment eliminations. 45 Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Companys Telecommunications Services segment: Years Ended December 31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) in % of Net % of Net Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 3,606,765 100 % $ 3,123,956 100 % $ 482,809 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 1,504,666 42 1,276,529 41 (228,137 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 704,557 20 636,955 20 (67,602 ) Restructuring charges 295 736 441 Depreciation and amortization 843,177 23 786,485 25 (56,692 ) Operating income $ 554,070 15 % $ 423,251 14 % $ 130,819 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $482.8 million (15%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in revenue from high speed data and voice services $ 269.6 Higher recurring revenue from cable television services 159.7 Increase in video on demand and pay per view services revenue 27.2 Other net increases, net of intra segment eliminations 26.3 $ 482.8 Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from increases in the number of subscribers to these services, upgrades by video customers in the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, additional services sold to our existing subscribers and general increases in rates, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes. These increases are offset by the effect of changes in prices offered to our subscribers for these services. High speed data and voice services subscribers increased to approximately 1.7 million and 0.7 million at December 31, 2005 as compared to 1.4 million and 0.3 million at December 31, 2004, respectively. Average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber increased to $100.46 for the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to $88.33 for the fourth quarter of 2004. 46 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for 2005 increased $228.1 million (18%) compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in programming costs $ 114.5 Increase in network management, field service and related costs 67.6 Increase in call completion costs relating to the voice services business 28.3 Other net increases 17.7 $ 228.1 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2005 as compared to 2004. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $67.6 million (11%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in sales and marketing costs $ 38.7 Increase in customer service costs 31.9 Higher expenses relating to a long term incentive plan 4.8 Decrease in stock plan expenses (includes the effects of changes in stock price, the vesting of restricted shares and employee separations) (1.7 ) Other net decreases (6.1 ) $ 67.6 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2005 as compared to 2004. Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues such costs decreased 1% in 2005 as compared to 2004. Restructuring charges amounted to $0.3 million in 2005 and $0.7 million in 2004. The 2005 amount is comprised of $0.9 million of current severance costs and $0.3 million of additional provisions for severance associated with the 2004 restructuring plans, partially offset by a $0.9 million credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring plans. The 2004 amount is comprised of $0.8 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance and outplacement costs, partially offset by a credit of $0.1 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring. Depreciation and amortization increased $56.7 million (7%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase resulted primarily from depreciation of new fixed assets, primarily subscriber devices and increases in amortization expense relating to other amortizable intangibles. 47 Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Companys Rainbow segment: Years Ended December 31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) in % of Net % of Net Operating Amount Revenues Amount Revenues Income (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 828,994 100 % $ 923,894 100 % $ (94,900 ) Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) 345,696 42 501,621 54 155,925 Selling, general and administrative expenses 332,251 40 334,358 36 2,107 Restructuring charges 104 909 805 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 114,090 14 213,161 23 99,071 Operating income (loss) $ 36,853 4 % $ (126,155 ) (14 )% $ 163,008 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $94.9 million (10%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. Approximately $114.1 million of the decrease was due to lower revenues at Fox Sports Net Chicago as a result of the termination of certain affiliation agreements following the loss of distribution rights agreements with two major suppliers of professional sports content and to payments not being received in accordance with an existing affiliation agreement. A decrease of approximately $22.4 million related to Metrochannel, which shut down two of its three channels during 2005. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in advertising revenue of approximately $39.5 million primarily from AMC, IFC and WE: Womens Entertainment and fuse and other net revenue increases amounting to $2.1 million. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments)) for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $155.9 million (31%) compared to 2004. Approximately $107.1 million of the decrease related to the VOOM HD Networks (including an impairment charge of $75.8 million recorded in 2004), and $71.1 million of the decrease resulted from the termination of distribution rights agreements with two of Fox Sports Net Chicagos major suppliers of sports content. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $22.3 million resulting from higher programming and contractual costs. As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 12% during 2005 as compared 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 amounting to 8% of revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $2.1 million (1%) for 2005 compared to 2004. The net decrease consisted of a decrease of $8.9 million from lower sales, marketing and administrative costs for Fox Sports Net Chicago, a net decrease of $5.7 million from lower administrative costs across all other Rainbow businesses, including a decrease in costs relating to the investigation into improper expense recognition and a decrease of $0.8 million related to stock plan charges, partially offset by an increase of $9.7 million in expenses related to a long term incentive plan and an increase of $3.6 million from higher sales, marketing and advertising costs. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4% in 2005 compared to 2004 including and excluding the effects of the stock plan. 48 Restructuring charges of $0.1 million in 2005 and $0.9 million in 2004 related primarily to expenses associated with the elimination of positions at Fox Sports Net Chicago, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $99.1 million (46%) for 2005 as compared to 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from impairment charges in 2004 of $78.5 million relating to certain Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.1 million related to certain assets of the VOOM HD Networks. A decrease of approximately $12.2 million resulted primarily from certain intangibles becoming fully amortized in 2004 and a decrease of $2.6 million resulted from certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $5.5 million resulting from the impairment in 2005 of certain intangibles and $0.8 million from the impairment of fixed assets. Madison Square Garden The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to net revenues for Madison Square Garden: Years Ended December 31, Increase 2005 2004 (Decrease) in Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Operating Income (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 804,395 100 % $ 778,754 100 % $ 25,641 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 518,773 64 561,326 72 42,553 Selling, general and administrative expenses 169,018 21 146,980 19 (22,038 ) Other operating income (95,840 ) (12 ) (95,840 ) Restructuring charges 366 4,146 3,780 Depreciation and amortization 62,834 8 45,445 6 (17,389 ) Operating income $ 53,404 7 % $ 116,697 15 % $ (63,293 ) Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $25.6 million (3%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. This net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Net impact of National Hockey League (NHL) cancellation of 2004 2005 season $ (11.6 ) Absence of National Basketball Association expansion revenue received in 2004 (10.3 ) Absence of Knicks playoff related revenue (6.2 ) Lower revenues from Christmas Spectacular, including touring shows (7.0 ) Other net decreases (3.0 ) Higher MSG Networks revenues due to: Retroactive increase in affiliate rates related to the period prior to January 1, 2005 17.8 Other MSG Networks revenues, (excluding the impact of the cancellation of the NHL 2004 2005 season and the Knicks playoffs reflected above) primarily from net affiliate rate adjustments related to the year ended December 31, 2005 35.2 Net higher revenues from other events at Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music Hall 5.7 Higher Knicks related regular season revenues 5.0 $ 25.6 49 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased $42.6 million (8%) as compared to the prior year. This net decrease is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Net impact of NHL cancellation of 2004 2005 season $ (37.0 ) Amortization of certain purchase accounting liabilities (32.1 ) Higher net provisions for certain team personnel transactions (excluding the impact of purchase accounting liabilities and luxury tax) 25.1 Higher net provision for luxury tax 2.9 Other net decreases (1.5 ) $ (42.6 ) The purchase accounting liabilities discussed above were established in April 2005 as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden. Following this transaction the Company began to amortize these purchase accounting liabilities over the period of the respective player contracts. Some of these players were subsequently waived or traded before December 31, 2005 resulting in the complete amortization of the associated purchase accounting liabilities. The higher net luxury tax provision of $2.9 million resulted primarily from luxury tax associated with a player who was waived prior to the new NBA CBA and whose contractual obligations are now subject to luxury tax. This was substantially offset by lower luxury tax for the current calendar years portion of the tax for the 2005 2006 season as compared to the prior years portion of the 2003 2004 season. There was no luxury tax attributable to the 2004 2005 season. Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $22.0 million (15%) as compared to the prior year primarily driven by an increase in expenses related to employee salaries and related benefits, including stock and long term incentive plans, higher professional fees and other costs relating primarily to the Companys efforts to acquire the development rights over the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authoritys Hudson Rail Yards, and higher charitable contributions. Other operating income of $95.8 million in 2004 results from the notice of termination of Madison Square Gardens broadcast rights agreement with the New York Mets. In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of their rights agreement with Madison Square Garden, and with the notice paid Madison Square Garden a contractually obligated termination fee of $54.0 million. The termination of the rights agreement was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season. In addition, Madison Square Garden recorded a $41.8 million credit reflecting the reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this rights agreement. Restructuring charges of $0.4 million in 2005 primarily represent charges recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions. Restructuring charges of $4.1 million for 2004 primarily represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in 2004. Depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $17.4 million (38%), as compared to the prior year. An increase of $10.7 million resulted from higher amortization of intangibles primarily due to certain intangible assets recorded as a result of the Companys acquisition of the minority interest in Madison Square Garden. An increase of $6.7 million resulted from higher depreciation expense primarily due to the acceleration of depreciation of certain Madison Square Garden Arena assets due to its planned renovation. 50 Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2004 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $726.8 million (18%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in net revenue from high speed data and VoIP services $ 204.7 Increase in revenue due to the consolidation of Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area 202.3 Higher revenue per cable television video subscriber attributable primarily to rate increases and digital video subscriber growth, net of changes in the average number of subscribers 139.9 Increased revenue in Rainbow Media Holdings programming services excluding those of Madison Square Garden and the effect of the consolidation of Fox Sports Net Chicago and of Fox Sports Net Bay Area 111.2 Increased revenues from video on demand, subscription video on demand and pay per view 31.7 Increase in Madison Square Gardens revenue 6.8 Other net increases 30.2 $ 726.8 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization, (including impairments)) include primarily: cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per subscriber basis; network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections; contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel; programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses; and interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization, (including impairments)) for 2004 increased $398.1 million (21%) compared to 2003. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increased costs incurred in connection with the VOOM HD Networks (including impairment charges of $75.8 million) $ 117.3 Increase due to the consolidation of Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area 112.3 Increase in programming costs incurred by cable operations 94.0 Increase in network management and field service costs 49.4 Decrease in Rainbow and Madison Square Garden programming and production costs, including contractual rights (excluding Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area) (12.3 ) Other net increases 37.4 $ 398.1 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 2% during 2004 as compared to 2003. 51 Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, costs of facilities and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $98.0 million (9%) for 2004 as compared to 2003. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in sales and marketing costs $ 37.4 Increase due to the consolidation of Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area 24.6 Increase in general and administrative costs 32.9 Increase in customer service costs 22.8 Increase costs incurred in connection with marketing and administrative costs of the VOOM HD Networks 12.0 Decrease in stock plan expenses (includes the effects of changes in stock price, the vesting of restricted shares and employee separations) (19.2 ) Decrease in expenses relating to a long term incentive plan (4.5 ) Other net decreases (8.0 ) $ 98.0 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2004 compared to 2003, including and excluding the effects of the stock plan. Other operating income of $95.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 includes a $54.0 million cash payment received in connection with the New York Mets notice of termination of the broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden which was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season and a $41.8 million reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this broadcast rights agreement. Other operating income of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded. Restructuring charges amounted to $0.2 million in 2004 and $10.7 million in 2003. The 2004 amount is comprised of $5.9 million of severance costs, partially offset by a $5.7 million credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment and other costs relating to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 restructuring plans. The 2003 amount is comprised of $4.6 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring and $6.1 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 restructuring. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) increased $95.1 million (9%) for 2004 as compared to 2003. The increase resulted primarily from impairment charges of $78.5 million relating tocertain Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.0 million related to certain assets of the VOOM HD Networks. The remaining increase of $4.6 million resulted from depreciation of new plant assets and amortization of acquired intangibles, partially offset by lower write off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets. 52 Net interest expense increased $107.7 million (18%) during 2004 compared to 2003. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase due primarily to higher average debt balances $ 121.1 Lower interest income 2.0 Classification of dividends on CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock as interest expense in connection with the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150 as of July 1, 2003. 60.6 Decrease in dividends on CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock due to their redemption in May 2004 (87.3 ) Other net increases 11.3 $ 107.7 Equity in net loss of affiliates amounted to $13.0 million in 2004 compared to equity in net income of affiliates of $428.8 million in 2003. Such amounts consist of the Companys share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company has varying minority ownership interests. The amount for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes $434.6 million representing our equity in the net income of Northcoast Communications, LLC, which resulted primarily from the gain related to Northcoast Communications sale of its personal communication service licenses to Verizon Wireless. Gain (loss) on sale of cable assets and programming and affiliate interests consisted of a gain of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to a loss of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 gain resulted from the sale of a minority owned affiliate interest. The 2003 loss resulted from the contemplated settlement of working capital adjustments associated with the Companys sale of cable systems to AT&T in 2001. Gain (loss) on investments, net for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 consists of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in millions) Increase in the fair value of Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast, General Electric and Leapfrog common stock $ 133.5 $ 237.7 Income (loss) on various other investments 1.1 (1.9 ) $ 134.6 $ 235.8 The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below. Write off of deferred financing costs of $19.0 million in 2004 consisted of costs written off in connection with the redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock and CSC Holdings 9 7/8% senior subordinated debentures aggregating $5.1 million and termination of certain of the Companys credit agreements aggregating $13.9 million. The 2003 amount of $0.4 million resulted from costs written off relating to the termination of certain of the Companys credit agreements. 53 Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 consists of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in millions) Loss due to the change in fair value of the Companys prepaid forward contracts relating to the AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric, Leapfrog and Adelphia Communications shares $ (132.9 ) $ (180.1 ) Realized and unrealized loss on exchange right and put option related to CSC Holdings Series A Preferred Stock (31.7 ) (38.6 ) Unrealized and realized gains (losses) on interest rate swap contracts (0.7 ) 10.4 $ (165.3 ) $ (208.3 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt of $78.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 represents premiums of $58.2 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock, $14.3 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings 9 7/8% senior subordinated debentures, and $6.1 million on the termination of the AT&T Wireless stock monetization contracts. Minority interests represent other parties shares of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, minority interests consist of the following: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in millions) News Corporations 40% share of the net income of Regional Programming Partners continuing operations $ (72.5 ) $ (6.2 ) MGMs 20% share of the net income or loss of AMC, The Independent Film Channel and WE: Womens Entertainment through July 18, 2003 (17.0 ) CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Preferred Stock dividend requirements through June 30, 2003 * (87.2 ) CSC Holdings Series A Preferred Stock dividend requirements (5.0 ) Minority partners interest in DTV Norwich 7.9 Other (1.0 ) (1.6 ) $ (65.6 ) $ (117.0 ) * Beginning July 1, 2003, these dividend requirements are recorded as interest expense. Net miscellaneous income of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Companys investment securities, partially offset by other miscellaneous expenses. Income tax benefit attributable to continuing operations of $191.8 million in 2004 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $14.0 million, non deductible preferred stock dividends, a non deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, a non deductible redemption premium related to the Series H and M Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate. Income tax expense attributable to continuing operations of $23.6 million in 2003 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $28.0 million, non deductible preferred stock dividends, a non deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate. 54 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and minority interests: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in millions) Net operating results of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business (including impairment charges of $188.5 million in 2004) $ (220.3 ) $ (26.6 ) Net operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida 22.9 18.2 Net operating results of the retail electronics business (5.7 ) Loss on sale of the retail electronics business (0.6 ) (8.4 ) Loss on sale of Bravo programming service (1.1 ) $ (199.1 ) $ (22.5 ) Extraordinary loss, net of taxes of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from Rainbow DBSs investment in DTV Norwich, LLC and represents the excess of the purchase price over fair market value of the acquired assets. Business Segments Results Cablevision Systems Corporation The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of our consumer video, high speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and Lighpaths commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including the VOOM HD Networks; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business. The Company allocates general and administrative costs to each segment. Certain corporate level costs not specifically identifiable with our subsidiary operations are not allocated. The financial information for the segments does not include inter segment eliminations. 55 Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Companys Telecommunications Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Increase (Decrease) in Operating Income (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 3,123,956 100 % $ 2,715,298 100 % $ 408,658 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 1,276,529 41 1,086,348 40 (190,181 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 636,955 20 611,154 23 (25,801 ) Restructuring charges 736 2,923 2,187 Depreciation and amortization 786,485 25 780,671 29 (5,814 ) Operating income $ 423,251 14 % $ 234,202 9 % $ 189,049 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $408.7 million (15%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in net revenue from high speed data and VoIP services $ 204.7 Higher revenue per cable television subscriber attributable primarily to rate increases and digital video subscriber growth, net of changes in the average number of subscribers 139.9 Increased revenues from video on demand, subscription video on demand and pay per view 31.7 Increase in Lightpath revenues, net of intersegment eliminations 14.1 Other net increases 18.3 $ 408.7 Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from increases in the number of subscribers to these services, upgrades by video customers in the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, additional services sold to our existing subscribers and general increases in rates, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes. High speed data and voice services subscribers increased to approximately 1.4 million and 0.3 million at December 31, 2004 as compared to 1.1 million and less than 0.1 million at December 31, 2003, respectively. Average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber increased to $88.33 for the fourth quarter of 2004 as compared to $77.49 for the fourth quarter of 2003. 56 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for 2004 increased $190.2 million (18%) compared to 2003. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in programming costs $ 115.0 Increase in network management, field service and related costs 49.4 Increase in call completion costs relating to the VoIP business 13.9 Other net increases 11.9 $ 190.2 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2004 as compared to 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $25.8 million (4%) for 2004 as compared to 2003. The net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increase in sales and marketing costs $ 18.1 Increase in customer service costs 22.8 Lower expenses relating to a long term incentive plan (2.2 ) Decrease in stock plan expenses (includes the effects of changes in stock price, the vesting of restricted shares and employee separations) (12.1 ) Other net decreases (0.8 ) $ 25.8 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3% in 2004 as compared to 2003. Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues such costs decreased 1% in 2004 as compared to 2003. Restructuring charges amounted to $0.7 million in 2004 and $2.9 million in 2003. The 2004 amount is comprised of $0.8 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance and outplacement costs, partially offset by a credit of $0.1 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring. The 2003 amount is comprised of $3.4 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 and 2002 restructurings, partially offset by a credit of $0.5 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring. Depreciation and amortization increased $5.8 million (1%) for 2004 as compared to 2003. The net increase resulted primarily from depreciation of new subscriber devices, headend upgrades and new plant assets, partly offset by a decrease in the write off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets. 57 Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Companys Rainbow segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues (Increase) Decrease in Operating Loss (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 923,894 100 % $ 610,417 100 % $ 313,477 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 501,621 54 279,755 46 (221,866 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 334,358 36 291,997 48 (42,361 ) Other operating income (4,261 ) (1 ) (4,261 ) Restructuring charges (credits) 909 (48 ) (957 ) Depreciation and amortization 213,161 23 91,520 15 (121,641 ) Operating loss $ (126,155 ) (14 )% $ (48,546 ) (8 )% $ (77,609 ) Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $313.5 million (51%) as compared to revenues for the prior year. Approximately $202.3 million of the increase was due to the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003. Approximately $52.8 million of the increase was due primarily to higher advertising revenue, approximately $38.4 million was attributed primarily to growth in programming network subscribers and rate increases, and the remaining increase of $20.0 million was from film distribution and other revenue sources. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $221.9 million (79%) compared to 2003. The net increase was comprised of an increase of $112.3 million resulting from the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003, an increase of $117.3 million relating to the VOOM HD Networks (including impairment charges of $75.8 million) and $10.2 million due primarily to higher programming and contractual costs, partially offset by a charge in 2003 of $17.9 million relating to the write down of certain film and programming contracts. As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 8% during 2004 as compared to 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $42.4 million (15%) for 2004 compared to 2003. Approximately $24.6 million of the increase resulted from the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003. The remaining increase consisted of an increase of $10.6 million in sales, marketing and advertising costs, and a $12.1 million increase in administrative costs relating primarily to the VOOM HD Networks, partially offset by a decrease of $4.9 million in charges related to a stock plan and a long term incentive plan. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 12% in 2004 compared to 2003. Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues, such costs decreased 11% in 2004 as compared to 2003. Other operating income of $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded. 58 Restructuring charges of $0.9 million in 2004 related primarily to expenses associated with the elimination of positions at Fox Sports Net Chicago, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) increased $121.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to 2003. The increase resulted primarily from impairment charges of $78.5 million relating to Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.0 million relating to assets of the VOOM HD Networks. An increase of approximately $23.7 million resulted from the amortization of acquired intangibles and approximately $7.4 million resulted from the depreciation of new fixed assets. Madison Square Garden The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for Madison Square Garden: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Increase (Decrease) in Operating Income (dollars in thousands) (As restated) (As restated) Revenues, net $ 778,754 100 % $ 771,986 100 % $ 6,768 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) 561,326 72 567,870 74 6,544 Selling, general and administrative expenses 146,980 19 145,912 19 (1,068 ) Other operating income (95,840 ) (12 ) (497 ) 95,343 Restructuring 4,146 3,735 (411 ) Depreciation and amortization 45,445 6 52,273 7 6,828 Operating income $ 116,697 15 % $ 2,693 % $ 114,004 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $6.8 million (1%), as compared to revenues for the prior year. This net increase is attributable to the following: (dollars in millions) Increases from: Higher MSG Networks revenues due mostly to higher affiliate fees, excluding impact of the cancellation of National Hockey League 2004 2005 season discussed below $ 16.4 National Basketball Association expansion revenue received in 2004 10.3 Higher other Knicks related regular season and playoff revenues 11.9 Higher revenues from Christmas Spectacular, including touring shows 15.9 Net higher revenues from other events at Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music Hall 13.3 Other net increases 9.1 Decreases from: Impact of National Hockey League cancellation of 2004 2005 season (42.7 ) Lower level of concerts and attractions held outside the Companys venues (12.2 ) Discontinuation of A Christmas Carol show at the Theater at Madison Square Garden in 2004 (15.2 ) $ 6.8 59 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization) for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $6.5 million (1%) as compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in costs attributable to the cancellation of the NHL 2004 2005 season. Other factors contributing to this decrease were lower costs associated with events held outside the Companys venues, the absence of the costs for A Christmas Carol due to the discontinuation of this show, as well as lower operating costs at MSG Networks. The impact of these favorable results, aggregating $75.5 million, was substantially offset by a net increase of $69.0 million. The main drivers of this net increase were higher provisions for Knicks active roster luxury tax and for certain team transactions, higher team compensation, a credit recorded in the first quarter of 2003 reflecting the reversal of a luxury tax provision attributable to a certain player who was previously waived due to a career ending injury, as well as increased costs associated with favorable revenue items discussed above. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $1.1 million (1%) as compared to the prior year primarily due to higher professional fees and promotional costs, partially offset by a decrease in expenses related to employee stock and long term incentive plans, lower provisions for severance, as well as other cost savings across the Company. Other operating income of $95.8 million in 2004 results from the notice of termination of Madison Square Gardens broadcast rights agreement with the New York Mets. In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of their rights agreement with Madison Square Garden, and with the notice paid Madison Square Garden a contractually obligated termination fee of $54.0 million. The termination of the rights agreement was effective at the end of the 2005 baseball season. In addition, Madison Square Garden recorded a $41.8 million credit reflecting the reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this rights agreement. Other operating income of $0.5 million in 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had been previously recorded. Restructuring charges of $4.1 million in 2004 represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in the first and second quarters of 2004, as well as an additional charge recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in 2003. Restructuring charges of $3.7 million in 2003 primarily represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain other staff positions in the second quarter of 2003. Depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $6.8 million (13%) as compared to the prior year due primarily to certain intangibles and fixed assets becoming fully amortized and depreciated, respectively. CSC HOLDINGS, INC. The operations of CSC Holdings are identical to the operations of Cablevision, except for (i) interest expense of $124.5 million and $85.0 million and related tax benefit of $51.0 million and $35.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, relating to $1.5 billion of Cablevision senior notes issued in April 2004 included in the Cablevision statement of operations and (ii) interest income of $3.8 million on intercompany borrowings and related income tax expense of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 included in CSC Holdings consolidated statement of operations which is eliminated in Cablevisions consolidated statement of operations. In addition, Cablevisions consolidated statements of operations include other costs of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, prior to the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150 on July 1, 2003, dividends attributable to the Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings were reported in minority interests in the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision. Subsequent to July 1, 2003, such costs are reported in interest expense. Dividends attributable to the Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings have been reported in minority interests in the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision. Refer to Cablevisions Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein. 60 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Cablevision has no operations independent of its subsidiaries. Cablevisions outstanding securities consist of Cablevision NY Group Class A and Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock and $1.5 billion of debt securities. Funding for the debt service requirements of our debt securities is provided by our subsidiary operations, principally CSC Holdings, as permitted by the covenants governing subsidiary credit agreements and public debt securities. Funding for our subsidiaries is generally provided by cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under bank credit facilities made available to the Restricted Group (as later defined) and to Rainbow National Services and the proceeds from the issuance of notes and debentures in the capital markets. The Company has also accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital over the last several years and may do so from time to time. CSC Holdings and those of its subsidiaries which conduct our video, high speed data service operations as well as our commercial telephone and high speed data service throughout the New York metropolitan area and, effective as of December 31, 2005, our residential voice services operations comprise the Restricted Group since they are subject to the covenants and restrictions of the Restricted Groups credit facility and the indenture governing the notes and debentures issued by CSC Holdings and Cablevision. The Restricted Group funded in 2004 and 2005 (i) requirements of the Telecommunications Services segment, (ii) requirements of certain Rainbow Media Holdings programming businesses (primarily our fuse subsidiary and our regional news operations), and (iii) certain other general corporate requirements. In addition, in 2004, the Restricted Group also funded certain Rainbow DBS expenditures planned for, but not funded, during 2003. In 2005, the Restricted Group funded the shutdown costs of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business and received the net proceeds related to the sale of the satellite to EchoStar as a distribution from Rainbow Media Enterprises (a wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings) which received such proceeds through a loan from Rainbow DBS. In August 2004, RNS, our wholly owned subsidiary which owns the common equity interests in the Companys AMC, WE: Womens Entertainment and IFC programming operations issued $800 million of senior and senior subordinated notes and entered into a $950 million senior secured credit facility ($350 million of which is a revolving credit facility and $600 million of which is a term loan facility). RNS cash from operations and proceeds from borrowings available to it provided funding for the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business (which was shut down in 2005) and the VOOM HD Networks programming business. Madison Square Gardens funding requirements had traditionally been primarily provided through cash from operations and previous borrowings under a $500 million credit facility. In March 2004, borrowings under the Madison Square Garden credit facility were repaid in full with proceeds from a $146.0 million equity contribution from Regional Programming Partners and the credit facility was terminated. 61 The following table summarizes our outstanding debt and present value of capital leases as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005: Cablevision RestrictedGroup Rainbow National Services Other Entities Total (dollars in thousands) Bank debt $ $ 1,256,000 $ 595,500 $ $ 1,851,500 Capital leases 1,257 1,592 56,938 59,787 Notes payable 15,905 15,905 Senior notes and debentures 1,500,000 4,194,553 298,207 5,992,760 Senior subordinated debentures 250,000 496,621 746,621 Collateralized indebtedness relating to stock monetizations 1,170,126 1,170,126 Total debt $ 1,500,000 $ 5,717,715 $ 1,391,920 $ 1,227,064 $ 9,836,699 Interest expense $ 124,498 $ 443,845 $ 121,166 $ 75,004 $ 764,513 Capital expenditures $ $ 698,928 $ 1,201 $ 69,163 $ 769,292 Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2005 and thereafter, including capital leases, the value deliverable at maturity under monetization contracts and the $1,256,000 of outstanding bank debt as of December 31, 2005 (reflected on a pro forma basis in the table below under the payment requirements of the new credit facility entered into on February 24, 2006), are as follows: Cablevision Restricted Group Rainbow National Services Other Entities Total (dollars in thousands) 2006 $ $ 12,026 $ 7,680 $ 880,351 * $ 900,057 2007 559,268 6,000 111,626 * 676,894 2008 553,577 6,000 259,272 * 818,849 2009 500,000 1,152,560 6,000 3,300 1,661,860 2010 252,560 6,000 3,300 261,860 Thereafter 1,000,000 3,193,200 1,365,500 3,300 5,562,000 Total $ 1,500,000 $ 5,723,191 $ 1,397,180 $ 1,261,149 $ 9,881,520 * Cablevision has the option, at maturity, to deliver the shares of common stock underlying the monetization contracts along with proceeds from the related derivative contracts in full satisfaction of the maturing collateralized indebtedness or obtain the required cash equivalent of the common stock through new monetization and derivative contracts. The amounts included in the table are $871,195 in 2006, $102,469 in 2007 and $222,624 in 2008. Restricted Group As of December 31, 2005, CSC Holdings and those of its subsidiaries which conduct our cable television video operations (including approximately 2.0 million digital video subscribers) and high speed data service (which encompassed approximately 1.7 million subscribers) and our residential voice services operations (which encompasses approximately 731,300 subscribers) as well as our commercial telephone and high speed data service throughout the New York metropolitan area comprise the Restricted Group since they are subject to the covenants and restrictions of the credit facility and the indentures governing the notes and debentures securities issued by CSC Holdings. In addition, the Restricted Group is also subject to the covenants of the debt issued by Cablevision. Sources of cash for the Restricted Group include primarily cash flow from the operations of the businesses in the Restricted Group, borrowings under its bank credit agreement and issuance of notes and 62 debentures in the capital markets. In addition, during the second quarter of 2005, excess cash balances totaling approximately $474 million held by Rainbow Media Enterprises and various other entities were distributed to CSC Holdings and used to repay outstanding borrowings under the Restricted Group revolver. The Restricted Groups principal uses of cash include capital spending, in particular the capital requirements associated with the growth of its services such as digital video, high speed data and voice; debt service, including distributions made to Cablevision to service interest expense on its debt securities; other corporate expenses and changes in working capital; as well as investments that it funds from time to time, including investments to fund certain Rainbow programming operations. On February 24, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a new $2.4 billion credit facility with a group of banks which facility consists of a $1.0 billion revolver that is undrawn, a $1.0 billion term A 1 facility and a $400 million term A 2 facility. Approximately $1.3 billion of the $1.4 billion received from the term loans under the new credit facility was used to repay the outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the prior Restricted Group credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2006, and fees and expenses. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of the Restricted Group will be met with cash generated by operating activities and borrowings under the Restricted Groups new bank credit facility and that the Restricted Groups available borrowing capacity under that facility will be sufficient to meet these requirements for the next 12 months. The Company announced on January 31, 2006 that it expects its Board of Directors to begin reconsideration of a special dividend at its regularly scheduled meeting in March 2006. There can be no assurance that the Board will decide to move forward with a special dividend. If the Board of Directors of Cablevision declares a special dividend, all of the funds to pay that dividend will have to be raised from the incurrence of additional debt. The new credit facilities at CSC Holdings permit the incurrence of an additional $3.5 billion of senior secured debt with the first $400 million being used to repay the new Term A 2 loan. Aside from the $1.0 billion revolver, there are no commitments from the lenders to fund any additional borrowings. We are already highly leveraged. The incremental borrowings would increase our leverage substantially and reduce our borrowing capacity and financial flexibility. In addition, these additional borrowings would increase our interest expense and our other debt service requirements, which are already substantial. The three components of the new Restricted Group credit facility are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, which are guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries. Each of the revolving credit facility and the two term loans have a six year maturity. The revolver has no interim amortization while the $1.0 billion term A 1 loan has amortization payments of 0% in year one, 5% in each of years two and three, 25% in each of years four and five, and 40% in the final year. The $400 million term A 2 loan is subject to quarterly amortization payments totaling 1% each year. Principal financial covenants include (i) maximum total leverage of 7.50 times cash flow through September 30, 2006 stepping down on October 1, 2006 to 7.25 times in the event that CSC Holdings pays a dividend to Cablevision funded in whole or in part by at least $1.5 billion of additional debt (Special Dividend) or 6.25 times in the event no Special Dividend is made with, in either case, subsequent stepdowns over the life of the facility, (ii) maximum senior secured leverage of 4.00 times cash flow through December 31, 2006 with annual stepdowns thereafter (the maximum ratio in effect is further reduced by .50 times after September 30, 2006 if a Special Dividend is not paid), and (iii) minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense of 1.75:1 initially, increasing to 2.00:1 (2.25:1 if the Special Dividend is not paid) on and after July 1, 2007; (iv) a minimum ratio of cash flow less cash taxes to total debt expense (defined to include interest expense, certain payments of principal and dividends paid by CSC Holdings to Cablevision to permit Cablevision to pay interest and certain principal payments on its debt) of 1.50:1. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds may limit our ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds. Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt. There are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default. The Restricted Group can make distributions or other restricted payments so long as CSC Holdings is not in default but there is a limitation (initially $200 million) on restricted payments during any period when the cash flow leverage ratio is greater than 6.75 63 times (6.0 times after September 30, 2006). The limitation does not apply to restricted payments used by Cablevision to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its indebtedness. Our ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the indentures covering our notes and debentures. CSC Holdings, a member of the Restricted Group, has also issued senior and senior subordinated notes and debentures, which also contain financial and other covenants, though they are generally less restrictive than the covenants contained in the Restricted Groups bank credit facility. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 9:1 and limitations on dividends and distributions. The indentures governing the Cablevision note and debenture issuances contain similar covenants and restrictions, including a limitation on additional debt incurrence based on a 9:1 debt to cash flow ratio. There are no covenants, events of default, borrowing conditions or other terms in the Restricted Groups credit facility or in any of CSC Holdings or Cablevisions other debt securities that are based on changes in the credit ratings assigned by any rating agency; other than an increase in the interest rate of up to .5% for the term A 2 facility if it has not been refinanced or repaid and the ratings are one notch lower than the current rating by June 30, 2006. Cablevisions and CSC Holdings future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by their credit ratings, which are provided by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors. In February, Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service announced the ratings on the new $2.4 billion credit facility. Standard & Poors rated the new credit facilities at BB, upgraded the Companys corporate credit rating to BB from BB and upgraded all ratings for Cablevision one notch except the unsecured debt at CSC Holdings. Moodys rates the new credit facilities at Ba3 and left the Companys other ratings unchanged. Both agencies changed the ratings outlook to stable. If the $400 million term A 2 facility is not refinanced by June 30, 2006 and the ratings on this debt were to drop below the current ratings discussed above, the spread of LIBOR on this facility would increase by 25 basis points. In August 2006, both Standard & Poors and Moodys placed all of Cablevisions and CSC Holdings ratings on creditwatch with negative implications and review for downgrade, respectively, as a result of the stock option review and subsequent noncompliance with financial reporting and other information delivery requirements under the Companys debt instruments. Any future downgrade to the Cablevision and or CSC Holdings credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact their ability to raise additional funds. Debt Covenants CSC Holdings Credit Agreement: On February 24, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a new $2.4 billion credit facility with a group of banks consisting of three components: a $1.0 billion revolver, a $1.0 billion term A 1 facility and a $400 million term A 2 facility that has since been refinanced and repaid in full, as described below. Approximately $1.3 billion of the $1.4 billion proceeds received from the term loans under the new Restricted Group credit facility was used to repay the outstanding borrowings and accrued interest under the prior Restricted Group credit facility that was scheduled to mature in June 2006, and fees and expenses. On March 29, 2006, the Restricted Group entered into a $3.5 billion term B facility under the new Restricted Group credit facility. Approximately $400 million of the proceeds of the new term B facility was used to prepay the outstanding borrowings of the term A 2 facility, including accrued interest, and fees and expenses. The balance of the outstanding term B facility borrowings was invested in short term AAA rated funds pending approval of the proposed special dividend by the CSC Holdings Board of Directors, and distributed to the Company on April 24, 2006 as a special dividend. On August 29, 2006, CSC Holdings advised the agent bank and the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility that due to the expected restatement of its financial statements resulting from the stock option review discussed in the Explanatory Note on page 2 of this Form 10 K/A, it was unable to comply with its covenant to deliver financial information, due on that date, with respect to the periods 64 ended June 30, 2005 and 2006. Under the new Restricted Group credit facility, the covenant noncompliance would become an event of default if the noncompliance remained unremedied for 30 days after notice from the agent bank or any lender (other than a lender under the term B facility) or for 60 days after notice from the agent bank or term B lenders holding at least 25% of the term B facility. On August 29, 2006, the lenders under the new Restricted Group credit facility, other than the term B lenders (the Required Revolver/Term A Lenders), agreed to waive until September 22, 2006 any default resulting from the covenant noncompliance under the new Restricted Group credit facility due to the expected restatement so notice of default could not be given by such a lender until September 25, 2006 at the earliest and the Restricted Group would have 30 days from the date of any such notice to cure the default. CSC Holdings is delivering all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility concurrently with the filing of this Form 10 K/A and the information delivery covenant noncompliance will be cured by that delivery. The Restricted Group did not obtain a waiver of the default resulting from the covenant noncompliance from the lenders holding term B loans under the new Restricted Group credit facility and, on September 7, 2006, the bank serving as administrative agent under the new Restricted Group credit facility gave a notice of default to CSC Holdings with respect to such term B covenant noncompliance. As a result, the Restricted Group has 60 days (until November 6, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the financial information covenant. CSC Holdings is delivering all required information under the new Restricted Group credit facility concurrently with the filing of this Form 10 K/A and the information delivery covenant noncompliance will be cured by that delivery. Cablevision and CSC Holdings Indentures: As a result of not filing their Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 by September 8, 2006, Cablevision and CSC Holdings are not in compliance with the information delivery and filing requirements under the indentures relating to their notes and debentures. Such noncompliance becomes an event of default as to any series of notes or debentures if Cablevision or CSC Holdings, as the case may be, receives notice of such default from the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of the securities of that series and fails to cure the covenant noncompliance within 60 days after receipt of the notice. If Cablevision or CSC Holdings, as the case may be, fails to cure the covenant noncompliance after expiration of the cure period, the trustee or the holders of 25% of the securities of the series may seek to declare due and payable the principal and accrued interest on the securities of the series. On September 12, 2006, Cablevision received a letter from an investment manager stating that it was acting for funds beneficially owning more than 25% of the outstanding securities of a series under one of Cablevisions indentures. The letter stated that it serves as a notice of default under the applicable indenture and demanded that the covenant noncompliance be remedied. Assuming the letter constitutes a valid notice of default from holders of at least 25% of the securities of the relevant series, Cablevision would have 60 days (until November 11, 2006) to cure its noncompliance with the information delivery and filing covenant. Cablevision and CSC Holdings are curing this covenant noncompliance by delivering all required information concurrently with the filing of this Form 10 K/A at which time the Company will be in compliance with all of the covenants of its debt instruments. Rainbow Media Holdings On August 20, 2004, Rainbow Media Holdings then existing $820 million credit facility was repaid and terminated with a distribution from the proceeds of the RNS financing described below. On the same date, the commitment from a bank to provide up to $250 million of senior subordinated funding to Rainbow Media Holdings which was to be guaranteed by AMC, WE: Womens Entertainment and IFC was also terminated. 65 Rainbow National Services RNS, our wholly owned subsidiary which owns the common equity interests in the Companys AMC, WE: Womens Entertainment and IFC programming operations, generated positive cash from operations in 2004 and 2005. Its cash, plus proceeds from borrowings available to it, may provide funding to other Rainbow developing programming services, including the VOOM HD Networks, subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in RNS financing agreements. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of these other Rainbow programming entities will be funded by distributions from RNS. The RNS credit facility is a $950 million senior secured credit facility, comprised of a $600 million term loan and a $350 million revolving credit facility secured by the assets and common equity interests of AMC, WE: Womens Entertainment and IFC, guaranteed by Rainbow Programming Holdings, RNSs direct parent and all of the other direct and indirect subsidiaries of RNS. The term loan requires quarterly amortization payments of 0.25% of the original outstanding balance ($1.5 million) beginning June 30, 2005 through March 31, 2011 and 23.50% of the original outstanding balance ($141.0 million) for each quarter thereafter through maturity on March 31, 2012. The revolving credit facility will be reduced quarterly commencing December 31, 2009 and through September 30, 2010, by $35 million, and for each quarter ending December 31, 2010 through September 30, 2011 by $52.5 million. Outstanding borrowings under the term loan were $595.5 million as of February 24, 2006, with $350 million in undrawn revolver commitments. Financial covenants include (i) a maximum total leverage ratio of total debt to annualized cash flow (as defined based on the cash flows of AMC, WE and IFC on a consolidated basis) of 6.75 times, through December 31, 2006 with periodic reductions thereafter to 5.00 times as of January 1, 2010, (ii) a maximum senior debt leverage ratio (as defined) to annualized cash flow of 4.75 times through March 31, 2006 decreasing to 4.50 times through December 31, 2007, with periodic reductions thereafter to 3.50 times as of January 1, 2009, and (iii) minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense of 1.75 times during the term of the agreement and cash flow to debt service of 1.25 times through December 31, 2006 increasing to 1.50 times for the remainder of the agreement. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds may limit our ability to utilize all of the undrawn funds available. Additional covenants include limitations on liens, the issuance of additional indebtedness and distributions and investments. RNS is permitted to make investments and distributions up to $200 million annually with a cumulative limit of $800 million for general discretionary purposes and, subject to having a maximum ratio of total debt to annualized cash flow of 5.0 times, distributions and investments of up to $300 million from the proceeds of permitted future debt offerings. RNSs notes outstanding consist of $300 million face amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $500 million face amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014. These issuances are guaranteed by substantially all of RNSs subsidiaries. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 7:1, reducing to 6:1 after January 1, 2009, limitations on dividends and distributions, investments and liens. RNSs future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by its credit ratings, which are provided by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors. On February 27, 2006, Standard & Poors announced that RNSs corporate credit rating was changed to BB from BB , the senior secured bank loan rating to BB+ from BB and the senior and senior subordinated unsecured debt to B+ from B. The ratings outlook was changed to stable from developing. Moodys ratings are B1 for the corporate family rating, BA3 for the senior secured bank loan, B2 for the senior unsecured debt and B3 for the senior subordinated debt and the ratings outlook is stable. In August 2006, Standard & Poors placed all of RNSs ratings on creditwatch with negative implications as a result of the stock option review. Any future downgrade to RNSs credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact RNSs ability to raise additional funds. 66 Madison Square Garden Traditionally, Madison Square Gardens primary source of liquidity had been its cash flow from operations and a previous $500 million revolving credit facility. This facility was terminated in March 2004 with proceeds from a $146 million equity contribution from Regional Programming Partners. Madison Square Gardens funding requirements for the next twelve months are currently expected to be met by its cash on hand and cash from operations. The Company announced its intent to renovate the MSG Arena during the fourth quarter of 2004. Although management of the Company is committed to this renovation project, another alternative, which would involve moving the Arena to another location, is being pursued. A substantial renovation or relocation of the Arena would require significant funding. Recent Events Dolan Family Group Proposal On June 19, 2005, the Company received a proposal from the Dolan family group to acquire the outstanding, publicly held interests in the Company following a pro rata distribution to all Company stockholders of Rainbow Media Holdings. The Companys Board of Directors appointed a special transaction committee of independent directors to review the proposal. The special transaction committee retained Lehman Brothers Inc. and Morgan Stanley as its financial advisors and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP as its legal counsel. On October 24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan family group withdrawing the June 19, 2005 proposal to acquire the outstanding, publicly held interests in the Company following a pro rata distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings. In this letter, the Dolan family group also recommended that the Companys Board of Directors consider the declaration of a $3 billion one time, special dividend payable pro rata to all stockholders. On October 31, 2005, Cablevisions Board of Directors authorized management to take all steps that would be necessary to implement a $3 billion special dividend payable pro rata to all stockholders subject to (i) satisfying applicable legal standards, (ii) obtaining the necessary financing on terms and conditions acceptable to the Board, (iii) establishment by the Board of the record date, payment date and final dividend declaration of the special dividend in accordance with applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements and (iv) final Board approval after completion of its ongoing analysis of the proposed dividend. In December 2005, the Company announced that during the course of preparing for the financing of the proposed special dividend, it ascertained that there were certain technical covenant violations under existing bank credit agreements and certain possible technical covenant violations under other debt instruments. The Company immediately began a comprehensive covenant compliance review, including seeking waivers under its bank credit agreement and seeking waivers under its other debt instruments, if required. As a result of these matters, on December 18, 2005, the Companys Board of Directors decided not to proceed with the proposed special dividend or an announced senior note offering. On January 31, 2006, the Company announced that it had completed the comprehensive debt covenant compliance review discussed above. The review identified certain technical covenant compliance issues under the CSC Holdings credit agreement and under the RNS credit facility. The Company received waivers from the lenders under these agreements and certain technical and clarifying amendments have been made to the RNS credit facility agreement. The covenant compliance issues under the CSC Holdings credit agreement necessitated certain waivers under the Companys agreements covering its monetizations and interest rate swaps, all of which have been obtained. No fees were paid to the lenders 67 and counterparties in connection with these waivers and amendments. The Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all of their debt agreements and instruments. The Companys Board of Directors is expected to begin reconsideration of a possible special dividend at its regularly scheduled meeting in March 2006. There can be no assurance that the Board will decide to move forward with a special dividend or as to the size or timing of any dividend. If the Board of Directors of Cablevision declares a special dividend, all of the funds to pay that dividend will have to be raised from new bank borrowings and or issuance of new debt securities. Sale of Rainbow DBS Satellite to EchoStar The Company closed on the sale of the Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets to a subsidiary of EchoStar in November 2005 and the net proceeds of $200 million were utilized to fund costs associated with the shutdown of its Rainbow DBS satellite distribution service, to repay bank debt, and or for other general purposes (see Note 4 in the Companys consolidated financial statements). Monetization Contract Maturities Through December 31, 2005, monetization contracts covering 1.9 million shares of our Charter Communications, 4.2 million shares of our AT&T Inc. (adjusted for SBC merger) and 1.0 million shares of our Adelphia Communications stock matured. We settled our obligations under the related Charter Communications, AT&T and Adelphia Communications collateralized indebtedness by delivering an equivalent number of Charter Communications, AT&T and Adelphia Communications shares and the cash proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. Through December 31, 2005, monetization contracts covering 7.2 million shares of our Comcast stock matured. We settled our obligations under the related collateralized indebtedness by delivering cash equal to the market value of the Comcast shares and proceeds from the related equity derivative contracts. The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast shares and, in certain cases, proceeds from a prepaid interest rate swap contract executed in conjunction with the equity derivative contract. Terms of the new contracts are similar in all material respects to the contract that had matured and allow the Company to retain upside participation in the Comcast shares up to the contracts upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited below the hedge price. During the next twelve months, monetization contracts covering 3.4 million shares of AT&T Inc. stock (shares were adjusted in conjunction with AT&Ts merger with SBC Communications in November 2005), 7.2 million shares of Comcast stock, 5.6 million shares of Charter Communications stock and 12.7 million shares of General Electric stock also mature. The Company intends to settle such transactions by either delivering shares of the applicable stock and proceeds of the equity derivative contracts or delivering cash from the proceeds of a new monetization transaction. Regional Programming Partners Restructuring In April 2005, the Company restructured its Regional Programming Partnership. The Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden and Fox Sports Net Chicago, and 50% of Fox Sports New England, and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners. The Company continues to own 60% of Fox Sports Net Bay Area. At closing of the transaction, the $150 million notes payable to News Corporation, including accrued interest of $2.9 million, were cancelled without any payments being made on them and Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida were transferred with their respective cash on hand to News Corporation. The operating results of these businesses have been reported in discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. 68 CASH FLOW DISCUSSION Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $926.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $723.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $958.4 million of income before depreciation and amortization, $63.5 million of non cash items, $88.6 million from an increase in accrued and other liabilities, and $45.4 million from a net increase in current and non current deferred carriage fees payable, $30.6 million from an increase in accounts payable and $23.9 million from an increase in deferred revenue. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $142.7 million increase in feature film inventory resulting from new film licensing agreements, an $81.3 million increase in deferred carriage fees and a $60.4 million increase in current and other assets. The increase of $81.3 million in deferred carriage fees and an offsetting increase in current and non current liabilities of $53.6 million arose primarily as one part of a series of multiple agreements entered into simultaneously with the settlement of the litigation between AMC and Time Warner. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $723.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $436.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $665.5 million of income before depreciation and amortization, $211.3 million of non cash items, a $52.0 million increase in accrued interest, a $129.8 million increase in feature film rights payable and a $11.9 million increase in accounts payable. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $258.4 million increase in feature film inventory resulting from new film licensing agreements, a $56.7 million increase in current and other assets and a $31.9 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $436.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2003 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $554.0 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non cash items, a $145.2 million decrease in accounts receivable from affiliates, a $88.1 million increase in feature film rights payable and a $19.3 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $191.7 million increase in feature film inventory, a $108.7 million decrease in accounts payable and a $69.7 million increase in current and other assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $763.6 million compared to $792.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005 investing activities consisted of $769.3 million of capital expenditures, $12.9 million in additions to other intangible assets and $9.5 million in increases to investment securities and other investments partially offset by a decrease of $27.3 million in restricted cash and other net cash receipts of $0.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $792.3 million compared to $561.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $697.5 million of capital expenditures, an $84.7 million payment for the acquisitions of our interest in DTV Norwich and its acquisition of FCC licenses to provide multichannel video distribution and data service, $35.8 million increase in restricted cash and other net cash payments of $4.4 million, partially offset by $30.1 million received in connection with Northcoast Communications sale of PCS licenses, representing the release of funds held in escrow. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $561.2 million. The 2003 investing activities consisted of $832.1 million of capital expenditures and $179.7 million of payments for acquisitions, partially offset by net cash distributions from equity investees of $443.4 million and other net cash proceeds of $7.2 million. 69 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $644.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $805.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. In 2005, the Companys financing activities consisted of net repayments of bank debt of $638.0 million and other net cash payments of $6.6 million. Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $805.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $398.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. In 2004, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of $2,793.9 million of proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, net bank debt proceeds of $132.8 million and $7.3 million from the issuance of common stock, partially offset by payments of $1,694.6 million for the redemption of CSC Holdings Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock and its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, $350.0 million to redeem CSC Holdings 9 7/8% senior subordinated debentures, $70.1 million of deferred financing costs and other net cash payments of $14.1 million. Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $398.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. In 2003, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from collateralized indebtedness of $330.7 million, net bank debt proceeds of $271.3 million and proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock of $75.0 million, partially offset by repayment of a note to MGM of $250.0 million and other net cash payments of $28.9 million. Discontinued Operations The net effect of discontinued operations on cash was $108.0 million, $(194.7) million and $(120.8) million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $67.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $111.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005 cash used by operating activities resulted primarily from a loss of $72.4 million before depreciation and amortization and non cash items, partially offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $4.9 million. Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $111.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 operating activities resulted primarily from a loss of $113.2 million before depreciation and amortization and non cash items, partially offset by net changes in assets and liabilities of $1.7 million. Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2003 cash used by operating activities resulted primarily from net changes in assets and liabilities of $7.9 million, partially offset by $2.1 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non cash items. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $80.2 million compared to net cash used by investing activities of $84.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005 investing activities consisted of $200.8 million of proceeds primarily from the sale of the Rainbow DBS satellite, partially offset by $108.9 million of net cash transferred to News Corporation as part of the Regional Programming Partners restructuring, $11.5 million of capital expenditures and other net cash payments of $0.2 million. 70 Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $84.8 million compared to $56.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $78.1 million of capital expenditures and $6.7 million of additions to intangible assets. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $56.8 million. The 2003 investing activities consisted of $56.3 million of capital expenditures and $0.5 million of additions to intangible assets. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations amounted to $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and consisted of net repayments of bank debt. The net increase (decrease) in cash classified in assets held for sale was $95.3 million, $1.6 million and $(48.5) million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments The Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005, which consist primarily of our debt obligations, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due by Period Total Year 1 Years 2 3 Years 4 5 More than 5 years Off balance sheet arrangements: Purchase obligations (1) $ 2,315,575 $ 504,148 $ 408,742 $ 307,563 $ 1,095,122 Operating lease obligations 820,717 89,112 164,374 147,634 419,597 Guarantees (2) 16,195 16,195 Letters of Credit (3) 45,736 45,736 3,198,223 655,191 573,116 455,197 1,514,719 Contractual obligations reflected on the balance sheet: Debt obligations (4) 9,813,694 888,193 1,449,681 1,917,120 5,558,700 Feature film obligations 463,864 112,191 164,915 89,279 97,479 Capital lease obligations (5) 67,826 11,864 46,062 6,600 3,300 Purchase obligations (6) 174,593 88,763 65,394 6,466 13,970 10,519,977 1,101,011 1,726,052 2,019,465 5,673,449 Total $ 13,718,200 $ 1,756,202 $ 2,299,168 $ 2,474,662 $ 7,188,168 See Liquidity and Capital Resources section for a discussion on payment options the Company has on its monetization contracts and notices of default received under various debt obligations. See Notes 10 and 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long term debt. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our operating leases. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our feature film obligations. (1) Purchase obligation amounts not reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of (i) long term rights agreements which provide Madison Square Garden and other regional sports networks with exclusive broadcast rights to certain live sporting events in exchange for minimum contractual payments, (ii) payments 71 under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel that are generally guaranteed regardless of employee injury or termination, and (iii) minimum purchase requirements incurred in the normal course of the Companys operations. (2) Includes outstanding guarantees primarily by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Companys holdings of Charter Communications, General Electric, and Comcast Communications common stock. Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet. (3) Consist primarily of letters of credit obtained by CSC Holdings in favor of insurance providers and certain governmental authorities for the Telecommunications Services segment. (4) Excludes interest payments. Includes future payments due on the Companys (i) bank debt, (ii) senior notes and debentures, (iii) senior subordinated notes and debentures, (iv) collateralized indebtedness, and (v) notes payable. The $1,256,000 of outstanding bank debt as of December 31, 2005 has been reflected in the table above under the payment requirements of the new credit facility entered into on February 24, 2006 (see description above). (5) Amount above reflects the face amount of capital lease obligations, including related interest. (6) Consist principally of amounts earned under employment agreements that we have with our professional sports teams personnel. Other long term obligations also include deferred carriage payments. The future cash payments reflected above do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the NBA for luxury tax payments. The future cash payments reflected above also do not include the impact of an action for breach filed by Loral Space and Communications Holding Corporation of its agreement with Rainbow DBS alleging that the sale of the Rainbow 1 satellite and related assets to EchoStar would trigger a Make Whole Payment of $33.0 million plus interest, or approximately $47.1 million as of December 31, 2005. The Company believes that it has substantial defenses to Lorals claim and is contesting the lawsuit vigorously. Accordingly, no provision has been made for such Make Whole Payment in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Finally, the future cash payments reflected above also do not include the Companys agreements with EchoStar Communications Corporation relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings LLC, the Companys VOOM HD Networks high definition television programming service. EchoStar was issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary owning the VOOM HD Networks programming service, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500 million in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings by the Company. Under the terms of the affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering the VOOM HD Networks for a 15 year term, if Rainbow HD Holdings fails to spend $100 million per year, up to a maximum of $500 million in the aggregate (which $100 million annual amount may be reduced to no less than $38 million per year, to the extent that the number of offered channels is less than 21) on its service offerings, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. The Company has the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM HD Networks are discontinued in the future. On the fifth or eighth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, the termination of the Affiliation Agreement by EchoStar, or other specified events, EchoStar has a put right to require a wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings to purchase all of its equity interests in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value. On the seventh or tenth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement, or the second anniversary date of the termination of the Affiliation Agreement by EchoStar, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings has a call right to purchase all of EchoStars ownership in Rainbow HD Holdings at fair value. Operating lease commitments represent primarily future minimum payment obligations on various long term, noncancelable leases for office and storage space, lease commitments for Radio City Music Hall and 72 Clearview Cinemas, and rental space on utility poles used for the Companys Telecommunications Segment. Obligations Under Derivative Contracts To manage interest rate risk, we have entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and or convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to provide an economic hedge against the risk of higher borrowing costs in a declining interest rate environment. We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and have only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade. All of our interest rate derivative contracts are entered into by CSC Holdings and are thus attributable to the Restricted Group; all such contracts are carried at their current fair market values on our consolidated balance sheet, with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2005, the notional value of all such contracts was $450.0 million and the fair value of these derivative contracts was $10.5 million, a net liability position. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a net loss on interest rate swap contracts of $9.3 million, as detailed in the table below: Fair Market Value of Interest Rate Derivative Contracts (dollars in thousands) Fair market value as of December 31, 2005, a net liability position $ (10,541 ) Less: fair market value as of December 31, 2004 (4,051 ) Change in fair market value, net (6,490 ) Plus: realized loss from cash interest expense (2,853 ) Net loss on interest rate swap contracts $ (9,343 ) We have also entered into derivative contracts to hedge our equity price risk and monetize the value of our shares of AT&T, Comcast, Charter Communications, General Electric, and Leapfrog. These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share, while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price. In the event of an early termination of any of these contracts, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. The following table details our estimated early termination exposure as of December 31, 2005: 73 AT&T Comcast Charter General Electric Total* (dollars in thousands) Collateralized indebtedness (carrying value) $ (159,876 ) $ (468,708 ) $ (209,138 ) $ (314,029 ) $ (1,151,751 ) Collateralized indebtedness (fair value) $ (161,434 ) $ (469,041 ) $ (210,369 ) $ (312,800 ) $ (1,153,644 ) Derivative contract (fair value estimate) 76,971 101,531 190,276 (81,729 ) 287,049 Investment securities pledged as collateral (fair value) 84,485 371,133 11,360 446,608 913,586 Net excess (shortfall) 22 3,623 (8,733 ) 52,079 46,991 Value of prepaid swaps with cross termination rights (2,571 ) (4,343 ) (6,914 ) Net excess (shortfall) including prepaid swaps $ (2,549 ) $ (720 ) $ (8,733 ) $ 52,079 $ 40,077 * Excludes Leapfrog monetization contract which is not expected to generate a shortfall due to the prepayment of interest. The underlying stock and the equity collars are carried at fair market value on our consolidated balance sheet and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value. At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of General Electric, Charter Communications, AT&T, Comcast, or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be), with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for information on how we participate in changes in the market price of the stocks underlying these derivative contracts. All of our monetization transactions are obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries that are not part of the Restricted Group; however, in the General Electric, and Charter Communications transactions and certain of the 2005 Comcast transactions, CSC Holdings provided guarantees of the subsidiaries ongoing interest expense obligations and potential payments that could be due as a result of an early termination event (as defined in the agreements). The guarantee exposure approximates the net sum of the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar. All of our equity derivative contracts are carried at their current fair market value on our consolidated balance sheet with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statement of operations, and all of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of our equity derivative contracts was $296.0 million, a net receivable position. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a net gain on all outstanding equity derivative contracts of $135.7 million attributable to changes in market conditions during the period, primarily driven by lower stock prices of several of the underlying securities. We also recorded a loss on our holdings of the underlying stocks of $135.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as shown in the following table: 74 Fair Market Value of Equity Derivative Contracts (dollars in thousands) Fair market value as of December 31, 2004 $ 371,856 Change in fair market value, net 135,676 Redemption of contracts (211,515 ) Fair market value as of December 31, 2005 $ 296,017 Loss on underlying stock positions due to changes in prevailing market conditions, net $ (135,082 ) At December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding prepaid interest rate swaps with a notional contract value of $614.0 million. These swaps were entered into in connection with certain monetization contracts and require the Company to pay floating rates of interest in exchange for receipt of fixed rate payments, the net present value of which was paid to CSC Holdings at the inception of the transaction. These swaps have maturities in 2006 and 2008 that coincide with the related prepaid equity forward maturities. Certain contracts provide for early termination of the prepaid interest rate swap in the event of an early termination of the related prepaid equity forward. All of our prepaid interest rate swaps are carried at their current fair market values on our consolidated balance sheet with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statement of operations, and all of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of our prepaid interest rate derivative contracts was $26.9 million, a net liability position. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a net loss on such derivative contracts of $7.2 million as detailed below: Fair Market Value of Prepaid Interest Rate Derivative Contracts (dollars in thousands) Fair market value as of December 31, 2004 $ (47,314 ) Change in fair market value, net 26,895 New derivative contract (6,462 ) Fair market value as of December 31, 2005 $ (26,881 ) Change in fair market value, net $ 26,895 Realized loss resulting from net cash payments (34,049 ) Net loss on prepaid interest rate swap contracts $ (7,154 ) In connection with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock to Quadrangle, CSC Holdings entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require CSC Holdings to purchase the preferred stock (put option) for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of Cablevision, at CSC Holdings option. The exchange right and the put option had been accounted for as a derivative. In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its put option to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Preferred Stock. The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150.3 million. The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004. The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the Companys consolidated statement of operations. Related Party Transactions In February 2005, the Company signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a private company formed by two of the Companys Class B shareholders, Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan, had planned to acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Companys Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the agreement with EchoStar (see Note 4 in the accompanying 75 consolidated financial statements). The letter of intent between the Company and VOOM HD expired on February 28, 2005 without a definitive agreement being reached. Following the expiration of the letter of intent, the Company began shutting down the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution operations. In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan (March 2005 Agreement) pursuant to which the parties agreed to work cooperatively to finalize the separation of Rainbow DBS from the Company. The Company agreed that no new shutdown activities would be undertaken at Rainbow DBS during the term of the agreement. In accordance with the March 2005 Agreement, Charles F. Dolan deposited $15 million with the Company to fund any expenditures above those contemplated in the shutdown budget, net of March revenue earned. This agreement terminated on March 31, 2005 and, in accordance with its terms, the distribution business of Rainbow DBS was shutdown effective April 30, 2005 and the Board of Directors confirmed such shutdown decision at a meeting on April 7, 2005. Cash deposited by Charles F. Dolan under the March 2005 Agreement that was not used to fund costs or segregated to pay costs associated with new commitments or other agreements of $8.7 million was returned to him prior to December 31, 2005. Cash of $6.3 million deposited by Charles F. Dolan which was used to fund the incremental costs less March 2005 revenue earned related to the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business, net of the related discounted income tax benefit to the Company, has been recorded as a deemed net equity contribution. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock based Compensation, Statement No. 123R, Share Based Payment. Statement No. 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance and it establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. Statement No. 123R requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. Statement No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after the effective date in which the excess tax deductions result in a reduction of income taxes payable. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 regarding the SECs interpretation of Statement No. 123R and the valuation of share based payments for public companies. The Company will adopt Statement No. 123R on January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective application. The modified prospective application requires that compensation expense be recorded for the unvested portion of the restricted share awards, stock option awards and stock appreciation rights outstanding at December 31, 2005, over the remaining service periods related to such awards. The Company will continue using the Black Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share based payments. In accordance with the pro forma disclosure requirements of Statement No. 123, the Company recognized the majority of the share based compensation costs using the accelerated recognition method. Subsequent to January 1, 2006, the Company will continue to recognize the cost of previously granted share based awards under the accelerated recognition method and will recognize the cost for new share based awards on a straight line basis over the requisite service period. The Company has not quantified the impact of adopting Statement No. 123R. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the Companys share based compensation plans. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions. Statement No. 153 addresses the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Statement No. 153 eliminates the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges 76 of similar productive assets and replaces it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. Previously, APB Opinion No. 29 required that the accounting for an exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset should be based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished. The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. The FASB issued FIN No. 47 to address diverse accounting practices that developed with respect to the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long lived asset when the timing and (or) method of settlement of the obligation are conditional on a future event. FIN No. 47 concludes that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liabilitys fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN No. 47 became effective for the Company on December 31, 2005. The adoption of FIN No. 47 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In June 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. The Statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Statement No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB Opinion No. 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. Statement No. 154 requires that a change in method of depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long lived, nonfinancial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is effected by a change in accounting principle. APB Opinion No. 20 previously required that such a change be reported as a change in accounting principle. Statement No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 04 5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights. EITF No. 04 5 provides guidance in assessing when a general partner should consolidate its investment in a limited partnership or similar entity. The provisions of EITF No. 04 5 were required to be applied beginning June 30, 2005 by general partners of all newly formed limited partnerships and for existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements are modified subsequent to June 30, 2005 and had no impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. The provisions of EITF No. 04 5 are effective for general partners in all other limited partnerships beginning January 1, 2006. EITF No. 04 5 will not have any impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures I. Background of Restatement As disclosed in the Explanatory Note on page 2 of this Form 10 K/A and in Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10 K/A, the Company disclosed on August 8, 2006, that in light of published reports concerning the pricing of stock options and the timing of stock option grants at numerous other companies, the Company had undertaken a voluntary review of its past practices in connection with grants of stock options and SARs. As a result of the review, which was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Companys stock option plans, the Company determined that the date and exercise price assigned to a number of its stock option and SAR grants during the 1997 2002 period did not 77 correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of the Companys common stock on the actual grant date. In addition to grant dating issues, the Companys review identified certain modifications made to outstanding stock option grants prior to 2002, principally extensions of expiration dates that were not accounted for properly. In addition, two awards of options and one option modification were also incorrectly accounted for as having been granted to employees or modified for employees. One of these two awards was to the Companys former compensation consultant (which was subsequently cancelled in 2003) and the other award related to an executive officer whose death occurred after the stated grant date of the award and before the actual grant date. The option modification that was incorrectly accounted for related to the options issued to this executive officer. Management of the Company has concluded that the Companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and all quarterly periods in 2005 and 2004, as well as the selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 should be restated to adjust previously recognized amounts of non cash stock based compensation (expense) benefit and the related income tax impacts. II. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under SEC rules). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2005. III. Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance to the Companys management and Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Companys external financial statements, including estimates and judgments, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those internal controls determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. The Companys management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005. Managements assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their reports appearing on pages I 1, I 2, II 1 and II 2. IV. Managements Consideration of the Restatement In coming to the conclusions that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2005, management evaluated, among other things, the control deficiencies related to accounting for stock based compensation and the control environment, which resulted in the need to restate our previously issued financial 78 statements as disclosed in Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K/A. Among other things, that evaluation also considered whether the disclosure controls and procedures in place at December 31, 2005 operated to ensure that information relating to option grants required to be disclosed by the Company in its reports required to be filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms. As a result of these evaluations, management has concluded that the control deficiencies that resulted in the need for a restatement of our previously issued financial statements did not constitute a material weakness as of December 31, 2005. Based on this assessment, management determined that as of December 31, 2005 there were effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to prevent or detect a material misstatement of reports required to be filed under the Exchange Act or a material misstatement of the Companys financial statements, respectively. V. Changes in Internal Control None. 79 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1. The financial statements as indicated in the index set forth on page 90. 2. Financial statement schedule: Page No. Schedule supporting consolidated financial statements: Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 81 Schedules other than that listed above have been omitted, since they are either not applicable, not required or the information is included elsewhere herein. 3. The Index to Exhibits is on page 82. 80 SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (Dollars in thousands) Cablevision Systems Corporation Balance at Beginning of Period Charged to Costs and Expenses Charges (Credits) to Other Accounts Deductions/ Write Offs Balance at End of Period Year Ended December 31, 2005 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 16,312 $ 47,995 $ 890 $ (46,390 ) $ 18,807 Year Ended December 31, 2004 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 24,729 $ 47,106 $ 768 $ (56,291 ) $ 16,312 Year Ended December 31, 2003 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 47,459 $ 60,264 $ (7,841 ) $ (75,153 ) $ 24,729 CSC Holdings, Inc. Balance at Beginning of Period Charged to Costs and Expenses Charges (Credits) to Other Accounts Deductions/ Write Offs Balance at End of Period Year Ended December 31, 2005 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 16,312 $ 47,995 $ 890 $ (46,390 ) $ 18,807 Year Ended December 31, 2004 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 24,729 $ 47,106 $ 768 $ (56,291 ) $ 16,312 Year Ended December 31, 2003 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 47,459 $ 60,264 $ (7,841 ) $ (75,153 ) $ 24,729 Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassed to conform to the current year presentation. 81 INDEX TO EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Cablevision Systems Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to Annex II to Cablevision Systems Corporations Proxy Statement, dated October 10, 2000, as supplemented, (the 2000 Proxy Statement)). 3.2 Bylaws of Cablevision Systems Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2001). 3.3 Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 3.1A(i) and 3.1A(ii) to CSC Holdings Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989). 3.4 Bylaws of CSC Holdings, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2001). 3.5 Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings, Inc., dated April 1, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of CSC Holdings Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1999). 3.6 Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of CSC Holdings, Inc., dated April 1, 1999 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of CSC Holdings Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1999). 3.7 Certificate of Designations for CSC Holdings, Inc. 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the 2002 10 K). 4.1 Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1995 relating to CSC Holdings $250,000,000 1012% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 3, Registration No. 33 62313). 4.2 Indenture, dated August 15, 1997 relating to CSC Holdings $400,000,000 818% Senior Debentures due 2009 (incorporated herein by reference to CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 4, Registration No. 333 38013). 4.3 Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1997 relating to CSC Holdings $500,000,000 778% Senior Notes due 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Registration Statement on Form S 4, dated January 20, 1998, File No. 333 44547). 4.4 Senior Indenture, dated as of July 1, 1998, relating to CSC Holdings, Inc.s $500,000,000 7% Senor Notes due 2008 and $500,000,000 758% Senior Debentures due 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 3, Registration No. 333 57407). 4.5 Subordinated Indenture, dated as of July 1, 1998, relating to CSC Holdings, Inc.s $500,000,000 818% Senior Notes due 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 3, Registration No. 333 57407). 82 4.6 Indenture, dated as of July 1, 1999 relating to CSC Holdings $500,000,000 818% Senior Notes due 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S 4 Registration No. 333 84449). 4.7 Indenture, dated as of March 22, 2001 relating to CSC Holdings $1,000,000,000 758% Senior Notes due 2011 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000). 4.8 Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2004 relating to Cablevisions $1,000,000,000 8% Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004). 4.9 Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2004 relating to Cablevisions $500,000,000 floating rate Senior Notes due 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004). 4.10 Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2004 relating to CSC Holdings $500,000,000 634% Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004). 4.11 Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to Rainbow National Services LLCs and RNS Co Issuer Corporations $300,000,000 834% % Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004). 4.12 Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to Rainbow National Services LLCs and RNS Co Issuer Corporations $500,000,000 1038% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004). 10.1 Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 6, 2004 between CSC Holdings, Inc. and Citigroup Globalmarkets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Bear, Stearns & co. Inc, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC Credit Lyonnais Securities (USA) Inc. and Harris Nesbitt Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 4, Registration No. 33 124061). 10.2 Registration Rights Agreement between CSC Systems Company and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of CSC Holdings Registration Statement on Form S 1, Registration No. 033 01936 (CSC Holdings Form S 1)). 10.3 Registration Rights Agreement between Cablevision Company and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to CSC Holdings Form S 1). 10.4 Form of Right of First Refusal Agreement between Dolan and CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to CSC Holdings Form S 1). 10.5 Interchange Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2002, by and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation LLC. 2011 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 83 10.6 Amendment to Interchange Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2004, by and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation LLC. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 10.7 Extension of Interchange Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2005, by and between CSC Transport IV, Inc. and Sterling Aviation LLC. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 10.8 Employment Agreement between Charles F. Dolan and CSC Holdings, dated January 27, 1986 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to CSC Holdings Form S 1). 10.9 Employment Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James L. Dolan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2003). 10.10 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James L. Dolan, dated March 2, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to the 2004 10 K). 10.11 Employment Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2003). 10.12 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner, dated March 2, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the 2004 10 K). 10.13 Employment Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004). 10.14 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge, dated March 2, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49 to the 2004 10 K). 10.15 Letter Agreement, dated August 2, 2004, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004). 10.16 Amendment to Employment Arrangements between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby, dated March 2, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the 2004 10 K). 10.17 Letter Agreement, dated October 11, 2004, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Wm. Keith Harper (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004). 10.18 Retirement Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2003 and Consulting Agreement as of January 3, 2004, between Cablevision Systems Corporation, CSC Holdings, Inc. and Sheila Mahony (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2003). 84 10.19 Amendment to Retirement Agreement, dated as of January 2, 2004, between Cablevision Systems Corporation, CSC Holdings, Inc. and Sheila Mahony (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.20 Employment Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2002, between CSC Holdings and William J. Bell (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (d)(3) to Cablevision Systems Corporations Schedule TO Tender Offer Statement, dated January 23, 2002). 10.21 Extension to Employment Agreement, dated as of March 12, 2004 and Consulting Agreement as of January 1, 2005, between CSC Holdings and William J. Bell (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.22 Supplemental Benefit Plan of CSC Holdings (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to CSC Holdings Form S 1). 10.23 Cablevision Systems Corporation Employee Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit A to Cablevision Systems Corporations June 3, 2003 Proxy Statement). 10.24 Cablevision Systems Corporation Executive Performance Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005) 10.25 Cablevision Systems Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit B to Cablevision Systems Corporations June 3, 2003 Proxy Statement). 10.26 Cablevision Systems Corporation Amended and Restated Stock Plan for Non Employee Directors (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit D to Cablevision Systems Corporations June 3, 2003 Proxy Statement). 10.27 Cablevision CHOICE Severance Pay Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49 to the 2003 10 K). 10.28 Formation Agreement, dated as of June 22, 1997, among Rainbow Media Sports Holdings, Inc. and Fox Sports Net, LLC, attaching Partners) and Annex B (Partnership Agreement of National Sports Partners) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed April 1997). 10.29 Lease Agreement between Nassau Cable Business Trust, as Landlord and CSC Holdings, as Tenant, dated as of November 1, 1997 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.56 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Registration Statement on Form S 4, dated January 20, 1998, File No. 333 44547). 10.30 Amended and Restated Contribution and Merger Agreement, dated as of June 6, 1997, among Cablevision Systems Corporation, CSC Holdings, CSC Merger Corporation and TCI Communications, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Cablevision Systems Corporations Registration Statement on Form S 4, dated January 20, 1998, File No. 333 44547). 10.31 Stockholders Agreement, dated as of March 4, 1998, by and among CSC Holdings, Tele Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the Class B Entities and the Investors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed March 4, 1998). 85 10.32 Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to the 1992 10 K). 10.33 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 18, 2000, by and among CSC Holdings, Inc., Cablevision of Massachusetts, Inc., AT&T Corp. and AT&T CSC, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed on May 5, 2000). 10.34 Asset Exchange Agreement, dated as of April 18, 2000, by and among CSC Holdings, Inc., Cablevision of Brookline, L.P., Cablevision of Boston, Inc. and AT&T Corp. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed on May 5, 2000). 10.35 Letter Agreement, dated January 31, 2001, among Cablevision Systems Corporation, Rainbow Media Holdings, Inc., Metro Goldwyn Mayer Inc., American Movie Classics Holding Corporation, AMC II Holding Corporation, Bravo Holding Corporation, and Bravo II Holding Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K filed, February 5, 2001). 10.36 Agreement and Plan of Merger and Exchange, dated as of November 4, 2002, by and between Cablevision Systems Corporation, Bravo Holding Corporation, Bravo II Holding Corporation, Rainbow Media Group, LLC, National Broadcasting Company, Inc., NBC Rainbow Holding, Inc. and Applause Acquisition Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 6, 2002). 10.37 Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2003, by and among Rainbow Media Holdings, Inc., American Movie Classics III Holding Corporation, American Movie Classics IV Holding Corporation, IFC II Holding Corporation, IFC III Holding Corporation, Metro Goldwyn Mayer Inc., MGM Networks U.S. Inc and, solely for purposes of Sections 2.02(b), 2.02(c), 5.01, 10.05, 10.08 and 10.11, Cablevision Systems Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.38 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 18, 2003, between Cablevision Systems Corporation, and MGM Networks U.S. Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.39 Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2003, by and among Fox Sports Net Bay Area Holdings, LLC, Fox Sports Net Chicago Holdings, LLC and Fox Sports Net, LLC and Regional Pacific Holdings II, L.L.C. and Regional Chicago Holdings II, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.40 Letter Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2004, between DTV Norwich, LLC, wholly owned by George S. Blumenthal and Company, LLC and Rainbow MVDDS Company, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003). 10.41 Credit Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006 among CSC Holdings, Inc., as the Company, certain subsidiaries of the company, as Restricted Subsidiaries, the Lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and L/C Issuer, Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers, Banc of Americas Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and JPMorgan Securities, Inc., as Book Runners on the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term A Facility, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and Credit Suisse, Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., JPMorgan Securities, Inc. and Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as Co Documentation Agents (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 86 10.42 Pledge Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, among CSC Holdings, Inc., certain subsidiaries of CSC Holdings, Inc. as Pledgors and Bank of America, N.A. as Secured Party (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 10.43 Loan Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2004, among Rainbow National Services LLC, the Guarantors party thereto, Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, Citicorp North America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association as Co Documentation Agents, JP Morgan Chase Bank as Administrative Agent and the other Credit Parties thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Cablevisions Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004). 10.44 First Amendment, dated as of January 20, 2006, to the Loan Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2004, among Rainbow National Services LLC, the Guarantors party thereto, Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, Citicorp North America, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association as Co Documentation Agents, JP Morgan Chase Bank as Administrative Agent and the other Credit Parties thereto (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 10.45 Distribution and Transfer Agreement entered into as of February 18, 2005 by and among Rainbow Regional Holdings LLC, Fox Sports RPP Holdings, Inc., Rainbow National Sports Holdings LLC, Fox Sports Net National Network Holdings II, LLC, Rainbow Advertising Holdings LLC, Fox Sports Net National Ad Sales Holdings II, LLC, Rainbow Media Holdings, LLC, Fox Sports Net Bay Area Holdings, LLC, Regional Pacific Holdings II, L.L.C., Fox Sports Net Chicago Holdings, LLC, Fox Sports Net, Inc. and Exhibit B (Partnership Agreement of Pacific Regional Programming Partners) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to the 2004 10 K). 10.46 Satellite Sale Agreement between Rainbow DBS Company LLC and EchoStar Satellite L.L.C., dated January 20, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to the 2004 10 K). 10.47 Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation, Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan, dated March 8, 2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to the 2004 10 K). 10.48 Contract, dated November 21, 2004 between Lockheed Martin Corporation, acting through Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems and Rainbow DBS Company LLC. (Confidential portions of this Exhibit have been deleted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.56 to the 2004 10 K). 10.49 Letter agreement amending the contract, dated November 21, 2004 between Lockheed Martin Corporation, acting through Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems and Rainbow DBS Company LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.56.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed June 6, 2005). 10.50 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (February 16, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 16, 2005). 87 10.51 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (February 16, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed February 16, 2005). 10.52 Form of Two Year Performance Award Agreement (February 16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed February 16, 2005). 10.53 Form of Three Year Performance Award Agreement (February 16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed February 16, 2005). 10.54 Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement (February 16, 2005) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed February 16, 2005). 10.55 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 7, 2005). 10.56 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (Vesting Subject to Performance Metric) (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 7, 2005). 10.57 Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 7, 2005). 10.58 Form of Performance Award Agreement (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 7, 2005). 10.59 Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement (November 7, 2005) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Current Report on Form 8 K, filed November 7, 2005). 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrants (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 21 to Cablevision Systems Corporations Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005). 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 23.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 31.1 Section 302 Certification of the CEO 31.2 Section 302 Certification of the CFO 32 Section 1350 Certification of the CEO and CFO None. 88 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrants have duly caused this amendment to the report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 20th day of September 2006. Cablevision Systems Corporation CSC Holdings, Inc. By: /s/ Michael P. Huseby Michael P. Huseby Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 89 
 
