Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10 K contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this Form 10 K there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance. Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to: the level of our revenues; competition from existing competitors (such as telephone companies and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators) and new competitors (such as high speed wireless providers) entering our franchise areas; demand for our basic video, digital video, high speed data and voice services, which are impacted by competition from other services and the other factors discussed herein; the cost of programming and industry conditions; changes in the laws or regulations under which we operate; the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described under Item 3. Legal Proceedings; general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate; the state of the market for debt securities and bank loans; demand for advertising inventory; demand for advertising in our newspapers along with subscriber and single copy outlet sales demand for our newspapers; our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses; the level of our capital expenditures; the level of our expenses; future acquisitions and dispositions of assets; the demand for our programming among cable television system operators, DBS operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system operators, DBS operators and telephone companies; market demand for new services; the tax free treatment of the MSG Distribution (as defined herein); whether pending uncompleted transactions, if any, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all); other risks and uncertainties inherent in the cable television, programming, entertainment and newspaper publishing businesses, and our other businesses; financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industries in which we operate; and the factors described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including under the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws. (49) Table of Contents CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION All dollar amounts, except per subscriber, per unit, per share data, and tender prices per note, included in the following discussion under this Item 7, are presented in thousands. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including capital and credit market conditions, the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers. Continued capital and credit market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as cable television services and entertainment, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customers inability to pay for the services we provide. We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn. Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. On February 9, 2010, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of Madison Square Garden, a company which owns the sports, entertainment and media businesses previously owned and operated by the Companys Madison Square Garden segment. The MSG Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record at the close of business in New York City on January 25, 2010 (the "MSG Distribution Record Date") and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date. As a result of the MSG Distribution, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Telecommunications Services Our Telecommunications Services segment, which accounted for 79% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, derives revenues principally through monthly charges to subscribers of our video, high speed data and Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") services and commercial data and voice services operations. These monthly charges include fees for cable television programming, high speed data and voice services, as well as, equipment rental, pay per view and video on demand. Revenue increases are derived from rate increases, increases in the number of subscribers to these services, including additional services sold to our existing subscribers, upgrades by video customers in the level of programming package to which they subscribe, and acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers. Our ability to increase the number of subscribers to our services is significantly related to our penetration rates (the number of subscribers to our services as a percentage of homes passed). As penetration rates increase, the number of available homes to which we can market our services generally decreases, which may contribute to a slower rate of customer and revenue growth in future periods. We also derive revenues from the sale of advertising time available on the programming carried on our cable television systems. Programming costs are the most significant part of our operating expenses and are expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of contractual rate increases and additional service offerings. (50) Table of Contents Our cable television video services, which accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, face competition from video service provided by incumbent telephone companies, DBS service providers and others. As discussed in greater detail below, we face intense competition in our New York metropolitan service area from incumbent telephone companies Verizon and AT&T, which offer video programming in addition to their voice and high speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Companys telecommunications products. To the extent the incumbent telephone companies, who have financial resources that exceed ours, decide to meet our pricing and or features or reduce their pricing, our future growth may be negatively impacted. There are two major providers of DBS service in the United States, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have. We compete nationally with these DBS competitors by "bundling" our service offerings with products that the DBS companies cannot efficiently provide at this time, such as high speed data service, voice service and interactive services carried over the cable distribution plant. Historically, we have made substantial investments in the development of new and innovative programming options and other product enhancements for our customers as a way of differentiating ourselves from our competitors. We likely will continue to do so in order to remain an effective competitor, which could increase our operating expenses and capital expenditures. Verizon and AT&T offer video programming as well as voice and high speed Internet access services to residential customers in our New York metropolitan service area. Verizon has constructed fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our New York metropolitan service area (currently approximately 40% of the households, according to our estimates). Verizon has obtained authority to provide video service for a majority of these homes passed, on a statewide basis in New Jersey, in numerous local franchises in New York State, including all of New York City, and in a small portion of Connecticut. AT&T offers such service in competition with us in most of our Connecticut service area. This competition impacts our video revenue and our video revenue grow th rates in these areas and may continue to do so in the future. Our high speed data services business, which accounted for 17% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, faces intense competition from other providers of high speed Internet access, including Verizon and AT&T in our New York metropolitan service area and Qwest in our Bresnan Cable service area. Our growth rate in high speed data customers and revenues in our New York metropolitan service area has slowed from the growth rates we have experienced in the past due to our high penetration in this service area (54.3% of homes passed at December 31, 2010). Growth rates have also been negatively impacted, although to a lesser extent, by intense competition. Accordingly, the growth rate of both customers and revenues may continue to slow in the fu ture. In addition, the regulatory framework for high speed data service may affect our competitive position. Our VoIP offering, which accounted for 11% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, faces intense competition from other providers of voice services, including carriers such as Verizon and AT&T in the New York metropolitan service area and Qwest in our Bresnan Cable service area. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, where unlimited United States and Canada (including Puerto Rico in the New York metropolitan service area and the U.S. Virgin Islands in the Bresnan Cable service area) long distance, regional and local calling, together with certain features for which the incumbent providers charge extra, are offered at one low price. Our growth rate in VoIP customers and revenues has slowed from the growth rates we have experienced in the past due to our increasing penetration in the New York metropolitan service area (43.8% of homes passed at December 31, 2010). Growth rates have also been impacted, although to a lesser extent, by intense competition. Accordingly, the growth rate of both customers and revenues may continue to slow in the future. In addition, the regulatory framework for voice services may affect our competitive position. (51) Table of Contents The Telecommunications Services segment advertising and other revenues accounted for 2% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Optimum Lightpath, which operates in our New York metropolitan area accounted for 4% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Optimum Lightpath operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies incumbent local exchange companies such as Verizon and AT&T, other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies. To the extent that dominant market leaders decide to reduce their prices, future success of our Optimum Lightpath business may be negatively impacted. The trend in business communications has been shifting from a wired voice medium to a wireless data medium. This trend could also negatively impact the futur e growth of Optimum Lightpath if it were to accelerate. Rainbow In our Rainbow segment, which accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, we earn revenues in two principal ways. First, we receive affiliation payments from cable television system operators (including our cable television systems), DBS operators and telephone companies (collectively referred to as "operators"). These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis under multi year contracts, commonly referred to as "affiliation agreements". The specific affiliation fee revenues we earn vary from period to period, operator to operator and also vary among our networks, but are generally based upon the number of each operators subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers." The terms o f certain affiliation agreements provide that the affiliation fee revenues we earn are a fixed contractual monthly fee. The second principal source of revenues in this segment is from advertising. Under our affiliation agreements, we have the right to sell a specific amount of advertising time on our programming networks. Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliation fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short term basis, not under long term contracts. Also, most of our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by a rating service. We seek to grow our revenues in the Rainbow segment by increasing the number of viewing subscribers of the operators that carry our services. We refer to this as our "penetration." AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than our less penetrated services. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in most of our affiliation agreements. In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers and or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related affiliation agreements, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators efforts to market our channels. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period. We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising sold and by increasing the rates we charge for such advertising, but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues, in most cases, is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services, and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by a rating service. Our principal goals in this segment are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our national services. To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high quality, attractive programming. One of our greatest challenges arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few operators, creating disparate bargaining power between the largest operators and us. This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration. In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements. Moreover, as a result of this conc entration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on this segment. (52) Table of Contents Other Our Other segment includes the operations of (i) Newsday, which includes the Newsday daily newspaper, amNew York, Star Community Publishing Group, and online websites including newsday.com and exploreLI.com, (ii) our motion picture theater business ("Clearview Cinemas"), (iii) the News 12 Networks, our regional news programming services, (iv) the MSG Varsity network, our network dedicated entirely to showcasing high school sports and activities, (v) our cable television advertising company, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation ("RASCO"), and (vi) certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs. Newsday Newsdays revenue is derived primarily from the sale of advertising and the sale of newspapers ("circulation revenue"). For the year ended December 31, 2010, advertising revenues accounted for 73% and circulation revenues accounted for approximately 26% of the total revenues of Newsday. Newsdays circulation revenue is derived primarily from home delivery subscriptions of the Newsday daily newspaper, and single copy sales of Newsday at the newsstand or through local retail outlets. Newsdays largest categories of operating expenses relate to the production and distribution of its print products. These costs are driven by volume (number of newspapers printed and number of pages printed) and the number of pages printed are impacted by the volume of advertising and editorial page counts. The majority of Newsdays other costs, such as editorial content creation, rent and general and administrative expenses do not directly fluctuate with changes in advertising and circulation revenue. Newsday and the newspaper industry generally have experienced significant declines in advertising and circulation revenue as circulation and readership levels continue to be adversely affected by competition from new media news formats and less reliance on newspapers by some consumers, particularly younger consumers, as a source of news. A prolonged decline in circulation levels would also have a material adverse effect on the rate and volume of advertising revenues. Clearview Cinemas Clearview Cinemas derives revenues primarily from box office ticket sales, concession stand sales, and, to a lesser extent, from advertising shown at the start of each performance and from venue rentals. Our ability to attract customers to our theaters is, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to obtain high quality film content at competitive pricing. To the extent other theater chains have greater leverage with producers and distributors of motion pictures, our ability to obtain such content at equivalent pricing will be hindered. News 12 Networks Our News 12 Networks, which include seven 24 hour local news channels and five traffic and weather services dedicated to covering areas within the New York metropolitan area, derives its revenues from the sale of advertising on its networks and affiliation fees paid by cable operators, principally Cablevision. (53) Table of Contents MSG Varsity MSG Varsity, which launched in September 2009, is a network dedicated entirely to showcasing high school sports and activities. One of the many compelling components of this programming service is the involvement of high schools throughout our footprint as co producers of MSG Varsitys content, in addition to content created by our professional productions. MSG Varsity is available to all subscribers throughout our footprint in the New York metropolitan area. RASCO RASCO is a cable television advertising company that sells local and regional commercial advertising time on cable television networks and offers advertisers the opportunity to target specific geographic and demographic audiences. Critical Accounting Policies In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. The significant accounting policies, which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Impairment of Long Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets: The Companys long lived and indefinite lived assets at December 31, 2010 include goodwill of $525,240, other intangible assets of $1,984,049 ($1,327,023 of which are indefinite lived intangible assets), $3,430,567 of property, plant and equipment and long term program rights of $597,355. Such assets accounted for approximately 74% of the Companys consolidated total assets. Goodwill and identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets, which represent primarily the Companys cable television franchises, various trademarks and licenses, are tested annually for impairment during the first quarter ("annual impairment test date") and upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 350 10, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill utilizing an enterprise value based premise approach. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination. For the purpose of evaluating goodwill impairment at the annual impairment test date, the Company had three reporting units containing approximately 86% of the Companys goodwill balance of $358,210. These reporting units are the Consumer Services (cable television) reporting unit in the Telecommunications Services reportable segment ($234,290), the AMC and Sundance Channel reporting units in the Rainbow reportable segment ($63,179) and the Clearview Cinemas reporting unit in the Other reportable segment ($10,348). Goodwill recorded in connection with the Companys acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010 was not included in the annual impairment test during the first quarter (see Note 4). (54) Table of Contents The impairment test for identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets is performed in accordance with the guidance outlined in ASC Topic 350 30, which consists of a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The following table sets forth the amount of identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets reported in the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010: Reportable Segment Unit of Accounting Identifiable Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Balance* Telecommunications Services Cable Television Franchises $ 731,848 Rainbow Sundance Channel Trademark 19,900 Other Newsday Trademarks 56,300 Telecommunications Services, Rainbow and Other Various other identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets 6,363 $ 814,411 * Excludes cable television franchises and FCC licenses acquired in connection with the Companys acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010, since these assets were not included in the annual impairment test during the first quarter (see Note 4). For other long lived assets, including intangible assets that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indication of potential impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value. In assessing the recoverability of the Companys goodwill and other long lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge. Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant information. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. For the Telecommunications Services reportable segment, these valuations also include assumptions for average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin and market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, among other assumptions. Further, the projected cash flow assumptions consider contractual relationships, customer attrition, eventual development of new technologies and market competition. For the Rainbow reportable segment, these valuations also include assumptions for the projected number of subscribers and the projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers and growth in fixed price contractual arrangements used to determine affiliation fee revenues, access to progr am rights and the cost of such program rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell through rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions. For Newsday, these valuations also include assumptions for advertising and circulation revenue trends, operating margin, market participant synergies, and market multiples for comparable companies. If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges related to our long lived assets. Based on the Companys annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2010, the Companys reporting units had significant safety margins, representing the excess of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit less its respective carrying value (including goodwill allocated to each respective reporting unit). In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value calculations of the Companys reporting units on the annual impairment calculation for goodwill, the Company applied hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases to the estimated fair values of each reporting unit. These hypothetical decreases of 10%, 20% and 30% would have no impact on the goodwill impairment analysis for any of the Companys reporting units with the exception of the Sundance Channel and Clearview Cinemas reporting units.&#16 0; For the Sundance Channel, which had a goodwill carrying value of $28,930 at December 31, 2010, a 23% reduction in its estimated fair value would result in a goodwill impairment test step one failure. For Clearview Cinemas, which had a goodwill carrying value of $10,348 at December 31, 2010, a 26% reduction in its estimated fair value would result in a step one failure. A step one failure would require the Company to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of implied fair value of goodwill and, if required, the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss. (55) Table of Contents The Companys primary identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets that represent over 95% of the identifiable indefinite lived intangibles (excluding cable television franchise and FCC licenses identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets acquired in connection with the Companys acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010) are the Companys cable television franchises and various reporting unit trademarks, which are valued using an income approach or market approach. The Companys cable television franchises are the largest of the Companys identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets and reflect agreements we have with state and local governments that allow us to construct and operate a cable business within a specified geographic area. Our cable television franchises are valued using a discounted ca sh flows ("DCF") methodology. The DCF methodology used to value cable television franchises entails identifying the projected discrete cash flows related to such cable television franchises and discounting them back to the valuation date. The projected discrete cash flows related to such cable television franchises represent the rights to solicit and the right to service potential customers in the service areas defined by franchise rights currently held by the Company. Significant judgments inherent in a valuation include the selection of appropriate discount rates, estimating the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows attributable to the cable television franchises and identification of appropriate continuing growth rate assumptions. The discount rates used in the DCF analysis are intended to reflect the risk inherent in the projected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets. Based on the Companys annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2010, the Companys units of accounting that represent approximately 90% of the Companys identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets have significant safety margins, representing the excess of the identifiable indefinite lived intangible assets estimated fair value unit of accounting over their respective carrying values. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations of all the Companys identifiable indefinite lived intangibles, the Company applied hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases to the estimated fair value of each of the Companys identifiable indefinite lived intangibles. These hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases in estimated fair value would not have resulted in an impairment of any of our identifia ble indefinite lived intangibles other than the Newsday and Sundance Channel related trademarks, which have a carrying value of $56,300 and $19,900, respectively. The hypothetical fair value decreases would have resulted in impairment charges of approximately $5,000 at 10% related primarily to the Newsday print newspaper related trademark, approximately $10,000 at 20% related primarily to the Newsday print newspaper related trademark and approximately $17,000 at 30% related primarily to the Newsday print newspaper and the Sundance Channel related trademarks. As of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Newsday indefinite lived trademarks were written down to their estimated fair values (see discussion below). The Companys impairment analysis of Newsday as of December 31, 2008 resulted in pre tax impairment charges of $59,522, $8,199 and $333,159 related to identifiable indefinite lived intangibles, certain long lived intangible assets and goodwill, respectively, originally recorded by the Company in connection with its acquisition of Newsday on July 29, 2008. The net $400,880 pre tax impairment charges recorded in 2008 are included in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) and the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $164,080, in addition to the allocation of such pre tax impairment charges to the noncontrolling interest owners basis in those assets. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $7,800 and $2,000, respectively, relating to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of Newsdays indefinite lived intangible trademarks. (56) Table of Contents The Company determined the fair value of our Newsday reporting unit based on a weighting of the estimated fair values determined under the income approach and the market approach. The income approach utilizes a DCF valuation methodology, which requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates based on the assessment of risks inherent in the projected future cash flows including the cash flows generated from potential synergies a market participant may generate, the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, including expected cash flows beyond the Companys current long term business planning period, and certain tax benefits the Company would recognize. The discount rate utilized for the interim impairment assessment was a consolidated weighted average disco unt rate of 12%. The market approach measures fair value using market multiples of various financial measures compared to a set of comparable publicly traded newspaper publishing companies and comparable transactions taking into consideration potential synergies a market participant may generate and requires significant judgments in determining comparable market multiples. The weighting between the income approach and market approach was weighted more towards the income approach based on our belief that the income approach was more reliable in the midst of the steep economic decline impacting the publishing industry, and in view of the fact that there were no recent observable sales transactions involving the newspaper business. The estimated fair values of Newsdays indefinite lived intangibles, which relate primarily to the trademarks associated with its newspaper mastheads, were based on discounted future cash flows calculated based on the relief from royalty method. Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. From the date of the acquisition of Newsday on July 29, 2008 through year end 2008, there was a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of the Newsday reporting unit, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008. The reduction in estimated fair value under the income approach was primarily due to the decline in Newsdays projections of future revenue and cash flows. In addition, the estimated fair value under the income approach was further reduced by the increase in the consolidated weighted average discount rate for the Newsday reporting unit from approximately 10% at July 29, 2008 to 12% at December 31, 2008. The consolidated weighted average discount rate was based on an estimation of a market participants cost of equity and debt, weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt for c omparable newspaper companies. The increase in the consolidated weighted average discount rate for the Newsday reporting unit from 10% to 12% was due to an increase in both the estimated cost of equity and debt for the industry, which was primarily due to an increase in the economic volatility affecting the overall economy, and in particular the newspaper publishing industry, and an increase in borrowing costs for the industry. Since the acquisition of the Newsday reporting unit on July 29, 2008, there also has been a reduction in the estimated fair value under the market approach. Approximately two thirds of this reduction was primarily due to a decline in market multiples and approximately one third of the reduction was due to a decline in Newsdays projections of future revenue and cash flows. The Company impaired 100% of its basis in the goodwill balance of the Newsday reporting unit as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to the acquisition of the Newsday reporting unit on July 29, 2008, the reduction in estimated fair values of the trademarks under the relief from royalty method was primarily due to a reduction of the assumed royalty rate from 4% in 2008 to 3% in 2009 and 2010 for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com trademarks, an increase in the discount rate for the Newsday print newspaper from 9.0% in 2008 to 11.5% in 2009 and 12.0% in 2010, and a decline in the Companys revenue projections for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com in comparison to the revenue projections at July 29, 2008. The primary reason for the decrease in the royalty rate from 4% to 3% was due to the lower projected margins for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com. The primary reason for the increase in the discount rate f or the Newsday print newspaper trademark from 9.0% in 2008 to 11.5% in 2009 and 12.0% in 2010 was due to an increase in both the estimated cost of equity and debt for the industry, which was primarily due to an increase in the economic volatility affecting the overall economy, and in particular the newspaper publishing industry, and an increase in borrowing costs to the industry. (57) Table of Contents Rights to programming, including feature films and episodic series, acquired under license agreements are stated at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. Such licensed rights along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability. If such uncertainty exists, those rights and obligations are recorded at the earlier of when the uncertainty is resolved or when the license period begins. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight line basis over the respective license periods. Our owned original programming is primarily produced by independent production companies, with the remainder produced by us. Owned original programming costs, including estimated participation and residual costs, qualifying for capitalization as program rights are amortized to technical and operating expense over their estimated useful lives, commencing upon the first airing, based on attributable revenue for airings to date as a percentage of total projected attributable revenue. Projected program usage is based on the historical performance of similar content. Estimated attributable revenue can change based upon programming market acceptance, levels of affiliation fee revenue and advertising revenue, and program usage. Accordingly, we periodically review revenue estimates and planned usage and revise our assumptions if necessary, which could impact the timing of amortization expense or result in an impairment charge. We periodically review the programming usefulness of our licensed and owned original program rights based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness of exhibition. If it is determined that film or other program rights have no future programming usefulness, a write off of the unamortized cost is recorded in technical and operating expense. Impairment charges of $1,122 and $7,778 were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no impairment charges recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008. Useful Lives of Finite Lived Intangible Assets: The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation agreements, affiliate relationships, broadcast rights and other agreements, advertiser relationships, and other intangible assets as a result of purchase accounting. The Company has determined that certain of such intangible assets have finite lives. The estimated useful lives and net carrying values of these intangible assets at December 31, 2010, which include customer relationships and other amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the Companys acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010, are as follows: Net Carrying Value at December 31, 2010 Estimated Useful Lives Affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships $ 345,464 4 to 25 years Customer relationships 239,986 7 to 18 years Advertiser relationships 42,159 3 to 10 years Other intangible assets 29,417 3 to 28 years The useful lives for the affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average remaining terms of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements. The Company has been successful in renewing its major affiliation agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliation agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the future. However, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adv erse impact on our business. In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 4 to 10 years for affiliation agreements and 25 years for affiliate relationships is appropriate. (58) Table of Contents There have been periods when an existing affiliation agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewals. If an affiliate were to cease carrying a service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliation agreement and affiliate relationship intangible asset. If the Company were to renew an affiliation agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under "Impairment of Long Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets" for the asset group containing that intangible asset. The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliation agreement and affiliate relationship remained appropriate. Based on December 31, 2010 carrying values, if the estimated life of all affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization for the year ending December 31, 2011 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $2,200. Customer relationships represent the value attributed to customer relationships acquired primarily from the Bresnan Cable acquisition which are amortized using the sum of the years digits method. This method of amortization results in a greater portion of the intangible asset being amortized in the earlier years of its useful life. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets: Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Companys future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards ("NOLs"). In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Companys ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences. If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Companys consolidated statement o f operations. Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly. At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state NOLs. The Company decreased the valuation allowance by $2,428 in 2010, decreased the valuation allowance by $1,427 in 2009 and increased the valuation allowance by $6,602 in 2008. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, certain state NOLs expired prior to utilization. The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired NOLs had been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The associated deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $287, $3,609 and $2,681 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. To address state income tax planning considerations, certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies during 2009. Certain state NOLs, for which the related deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance, were eliminated pursuant to such conversions. Accordingly, the associated deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $9,355 in 2009. (59) Table of Contents Plant and Equipment: Costs incurred in the construction of the Companys cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Companys hybrid fiber coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized. These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities. The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities. These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant (10 to 25 years) and headend facilities (4 to 25 years). Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and mainte nance, are expensed as incurred. Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized. These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities. In addition, on site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized. The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.&# 160; New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively. The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up and down grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred. Certain Transactions The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: 2010 Transactions On February 9, 2010, Cablevision completed the MSG Distribution, which took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date. On January 12, 2010, the Company transferred to Madison Square Garden the Companys subsidiaries which owned, directly or indirectly, all of the partnership interests in Madison Square Garden, L.P. As a result of the MSG Distribution, on February 9, 2010, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reportin g and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the MSG Distribution date. On December 14, 2010, the Company completed its acquisition of Bresnan Cable through a newly formed subsidiary. The purchase price was $1,366,157 subject to final working capital and certain other adjustments. The acquisition was financed using an equity contribution by CSC Holdings of $395,000, which CSC Holdings borrowed under its revolving credit facility, and debt consisting of an undrawn $75,000 revolving credit facility, a $765,000 term loan facility and $250,000 8.0% senior notes due 2018. On December 31, 2010, Rainbow Media Holdings transferred its membership interests in News 12 Networks, RASCO and certain other business to wholly owned subsidiaries of CSC Holdings in contemplation of the proposed Rainbow Distribution. (60) Table of Contents 2008 Transactions In June 2008, the Company acquired a 100% interest in Sundance Channel L.L.C. for a purchase price, including transaction costs, of $482,416. In July 2008, the Company completed a series of transactions in which the Company received a 97.2% interest in a newly created limited liability company (Newsday Holdings LLC) between CSC Holdings and Tribune Company that included the net assets of Newsday Media Group. The purchase price to the Company was $622,717, including transaction costs. In addition, Cablevision contributed approximately $682,000 aggregate face value of newly issued 8% senior notes due 2012 (with a fair value of approximately $650,000 on the date of contribution) to CSC Holdings which in turn contributed those notes to Newsday Holdings LLC. In 2010, Cablevision redeemed the senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC for $758,968. Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7 3/4% sen ior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest. In October 2008, Optimum Lightpath completed the acquisition of 4Connections LLC for a purchase price of $49,631. (61) Table of Contents Results of Operations Cablevision Systems Corporation The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 7,231,249 100 % $ 6,847,301 100 % $ 383,948 Operating expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 3,007,883 42 2,818,468 41 (189,415 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,703,173 24 1,643,731 24 (59,442 ) Restructuring expense (credits) (2,276 ) 10,728 13,004 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 993,547 14 1,022,912 15 29,365 Operating income 1,528,922 21 1,351,462 20 177,460 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (784,163 ) (11 ) (745,521 ) (11 ) (38,642 ) Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net 2,518 2,130 388 Gain (loss) on investments, net 109,810 2 (981 ) 110,791 Gain (loss) on equity derivative contracts, net (72,044 ) (1 ) 631 (72,675 ) Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net (85,013 ) (1 ) (78,868 ) (1 ) (6,145 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt and write off of deferred financing costs (110,049 ) (2 ) (73,457 ) (1 ) (36,592 ) Miscellaneous, net 1,288 734 554 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 591,269 8 456,130 7 135,139 Income tax expense (225,550 ) (3 ) (206,669 ) (3 ) (18,881 ) Income from continuing operations 365,719 5 249,461 4 116,258 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (4,122 ) 35,838 1 (39,960 ) Net income 361,597 5 285,299 4 76,298 Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests (649 ) 273 (922 ) Net income attributable to Cablevision Systems Corporation shareholders $ 360,948 5 % $ 285,572 4 % $ 75,376 The following is a reconciliation of operating income to Adjusted Operating Cash Flow ("AOCF"): Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 1,528,922 $ 1,351,462 $ 177,460 Share based compensation 61,247 59,742 1,505 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 993,547 1,022,912 (29,365 ) Restructuring expense (credits) (2,276 ) 10,728 (13,004 ) AOCF $ 2,581,440 $ 2,444,844 $ 136,596 (62) Table of Contents STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA (continued) Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 6,847,301 100 % $ 6,319,852 100 % $ 527,449 Operating expenses: Technical and operating (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments shown below) 2,818,468 41 2,645,831 42 (172,637 ) Selling, general and administrative 1,643,731 24 1,504,862 24 (138,869 ) Restructuring expense 10,728 49,883 1 39,155 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 1,022,912 15 1,441,532 23 418,620 Operating income 1,351,462 20 677,744 11 673,718 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (745,521 ) (11 ) (784,793 ) (12 ) 39,272 Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net 2,130 805 1,325 Loss on investments, net (981 ) (136,414 ) (2 ) 135,433 Gain on equity derivative contracts, net 631 118,219 2 (117,588 ) Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net (78,868 ) (1 ) (205,683 ) (3 ) 126,815 Loss on extinguishment of debt and write off of deferred financing costs (73,457 ) (1 ) (2,424 ) (71,033 ) Miscellaneous, net 734 1,264 (530 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 456,130 7 (331,282 ) (5 ) 787,412 Income tax benefit (expense) (206,669 ) (3 ) 88,944 1 (295,613 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 249,461 4 (242,338 ) (4 ) 491,799 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 35,838 1 6,166 29,672 Net income (loss) 285,299 4 (236,172 ) (4 ) 521,471 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 273 8,108 (7,835 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Cablevision Systems Corporation shareholders $ 285,572 4 % $ (228,064 ) (4 )% $ 513,636 The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 1,351,462 $ 677,744 $ 673,718 Share based compensation 59,742 42,937 16,805 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 1,022,912 1,441,532 (418,620 ) Restructuring expense 10,728 49,883 (39,155 ) AOCF $ 2,444,844 $ 2,212,096 $ 232,748 (63) Table of Contents Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2010 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2009 Consolidated Results Cablevision Systems Corporation We classify our operations into three reportable segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of our video, high speed data, VoIP services and the commercial high speed data and voice services operations of Optimum Lightpath; Rainbow, consisting principally of our national programming services, including AMC, WE tv, IFC, Sundance Channel, IFC Entertainment, and the VOOM HD Networks (the U.S. domestic programming which ceased in January 2009); and Other, consisting principally of (i) Newsday, which includes the Newsday daily newspaper, amNew York, Star Community Publishing Group, and online websites including newsday.com and exploreLI.com; (ii) our motion picture theater business ("Clearview Cinemas"), (iii) the News 12 Networks, (iv) the MSG Varsity network, (v) Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation ("RASCO"), a cable television advertising company, and (vi) certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs. On December 31, 2010, Rainbow Media Holdings transferred its membership interests in News 12 Networks, RASCO and certain other businesses to wholly owned subsidiaries of CSC Holdings in contemplation of the proposed Rainbow Distribution. The operations of News 12 Networks and RASCO, which were previously included in the Rainbow segment, have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented. The operations of Newsday, which were previously reported in a separate Newsday segment, have also been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented. We allocate certain amounts of our corporate overhead to each segment based upon their proportionate estimated usage of services, except for Newsday as to which we allocated the incremental costs incurred in providing these services through September 30, 2009. Subsequent to September 30, 2009, we allocated certain amounts of our corporate overhead to Newsday based upon its proportionate estimated usage of such services. The segment financial information set forth below, including the discussion related to individual line items, does not reflect inter segment eliminations unless specifically indicated. Subsequent to January 1, 2010, amounts allocated to Madison Square Garden represent charges pursuant to the transition services agreement. Corporate overhead costs previously allocated to Madison Square Garden that were not eliminated as a result of the MSG Distribution have been reclassified to continuing operations. See "Business Segments Results" for a discussion relating to the operating results of our segments. Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $383,948 (6%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in revenues of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 304,022 Increase in revenues of the Rainbow segment 104,644 Decrease in revenues of the Other segment (28,291 ) Inter segment eliminations 3,573 $ 383,948 (64) Table of Contents Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) include primarily: cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per subscriber basis; network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections; amortization of program rights, including those for feature films and non film programming, participation and residual costs, and distribution and production related costs of our Rainbow segment; interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses which represent the transport and termination of calls with other telecommunications carriers; and publication production and distribution costs of our Newsday business. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) in 2010 increased $189,415 (7%) as compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 134,460 Increase in expenses of the Rainbow segment 55,722 Decrease in expenses of the Other segment (3,688 ) Inter segment eliminations 2,921 $ 189,415 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2010 as compared to 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $59,442 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 42,518 Increase in expenses of the Rainbow segment 13,800 Increase in expenses of the Other segment 2,472 Inter segment eliminations 652 $ 59,442 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $29,365 for 2010 as compared to 2009. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Decrease in expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ (32,890 ) Decrease in expenses of the Rainbow segment (49 ) Increase in expenses of the Other segment 3,574 $ (29,365 ) Adjusted operating cash flow increased $136,596 (6%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in AOCF of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 130,181 Increase in AOCF of the Rainbow segment 37,604 Decrease in AOCF of the Other segment (31,189 ) $ 136,596 (65) Table of Contents Interest expense, net increased $38,642 (5%) for 2010 as compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase due to higher average interest rates on our indebtedness, including extension fees to lenders $ 37,273 Net decrease due to change in average debt balances (9,003 ) Lower interest income 1,284 Other net increases (including an increase in arrangement fees for term loan extensions) 9,088 $ 38,642 See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion below for a detail of our various borrower groups. Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net amounted to $2,518 and $2,130 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily from the sale of our ownership interests in PVI in 2010 and Sportskool and Lifeskool in 2009. The sale of our ownership interests in Sportskool and Lifeskool are being recognized under the installment sales method. Gain (loss) on investments, net for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $109,810 and $(981), respectively, consists primarily of the increase or decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock owned by the Company. The effects of these gains and losses are partially offset by the losses and gains on the related equity derivative contracts, net described below. Gain (loss) on equity derivative contracts, net for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $(72,044) and $631, respectively, consists of unrealized and realized losses and gains due to the change in fair value of the Companys equity derivative contracts relating to the Comcast common stock owned by the Company. The effects of these losses and gains are partially offset by the gains or losses on investment securities pledged as collateral, which are included in gain (loss) on investments, net discussed above. Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net amounted to $85,013 and $78,868 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a portion of the Companys floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates. The losses on interest rate swap contracts are a result of a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts. Loss on extinguishment of debt and write off of deferred financing costs amounted to $110,049 and $73,457 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The 2010 amount represents premiums paid to repurchase a portion of Cablevision senior notes due April 2012 and related fees associated with the tender offer and the write off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to such repurchases. The 2009 amount represents the premiums paid to repurchase a portion of Cablevision senior notes due April 2009, CSC Holdings senior notes due July 2009, and senior debentures due August 2009 and related fees associated with the tender offers. They also included the write off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to such re purchases. Income tax expense of $225,550 for the year ended December 31, 2010, reflected an effective tax rate of 38%. In the second quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a nonrecurring tax benefit of $18,951 for an increase in certain state and city net operating loss carry forwards pursuant to the finalization of an examination with a state taxing authority. Absent this tax benefit, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 would have been 41%. The Company recorded tax expense of $7,078 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes principally due to the impact of the MSG Distribution on February 9, 2010. A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating l oss carry forwards resulted in a tax benefit of $2,428. The Company recorded tax expense of $2,632, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions. (66) Table of Contents The Company recorded income tax expense of $206,669 for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflecting an effective tax rate of 45%. To address state income tax planning considerations, during 2009 certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies. In connection with such conversions, the Company recorded tax expense of $9,095 relating to the elimination of certain state NOLs and credit carry forwards. Absent this tax expense, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been 43%. The Company recorded a tax benefit of $6,126 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes. A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in a tax benefit of $1,42 7. The Company recorded tax expense of $3,009, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has fully offset federal taxable income with a net operating loss carry forward. However, the Company is subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and certain state and local income taxes that are payable quarterly. Income (loss) from discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 reflects the following items: Years Ended December 31, 2010(a) 2009 Net operating results of Madison Square Garden, including transaction costs, net of income taxes $ (4,122 ) $ 35,856 Other, net of income taxes (18 ) $ (4,122 ) $ 35,838 (a) Includes operating results of the Madison Square Garden segment from January 1, 2010 through February 9, 2010, the date of the MSG Distribution. (67) Table of Contents Business Segments Results Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Telecommunications Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 5,735,522 100 % $ 5,431,500 100 % $ 304,022 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) 2,334,456 41 2,199,996 41 (134,460 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,076,802 19 1,034,284 19 (42,518 ) Depreciation and amortization 824,029 14 856,919 16 32,890 Operating income $ 1,500,235 26 % $ 1,340,301 25 % $ 159,934 The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 1,500,235 $ 1,340,301 $ 159,934 Share based compensation 33,885 30,748 3,137 Depreciation and amortization 824,029 856,919 (32,890 ) AOCF $ 2,358,149 $ 2,227,968 $ 130,181 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $304,022 (6%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Years Ended December 31, Percent 2010 2009 Increase Increase Video (including analog, digital, pay per view, video on demand and digital video recorder) $ 3,237,793 $ 3,080,078 $ 157,715 5 % High speed data 1,193,624 1,146,789 46,835 4 Voice 808,374 771,236 37,138 5 Advertising 135,890 105,633 30,257 29 Other (including installation, home shopping, advertising sales commissions, and other products) 94,907 94,066 841 1 Total Cable Television 5,470,588 5,197,802 272,786 5 Optimum Lightpath 284,034 255,549 28,485 11 Intra segment eliminations (19,100 ) (21,851 ) 2,751 13 Total Telecommunications Services $ 5,735,522 $ 5,431,500 $ 304,022 6 % Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from higher rates (primarily due to an increase in video rates of 3.7% on average, which was implemented beginning in December 2009), increases in the number of subscribers to our high speed data and voice services as set forth in the table below, including additional services sold to our existing video subscribers, upgrades by video customers from the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, and acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers. The acquisition of our Bresnan Cable system on December 14, 2010, resulted in an approximate $22,100 increase in revenues, net. These increases are partially offset by promotional offer pricing discounts and a decline in basic video customers in our New York metropolitan service area and other rate changes. Our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $150.68 (for our New York metropolitan service area only) as compared to $149.04 and $144.03 for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. (68) Table of Contents We believe the increase in advertising revenue is primarily due to a general improvement in the cable television advertising market and political advertising in 2010. The increase in Optimum Lightpath net revenues is primarily attributable to growth in Ethernet data services, partially offset by reduced traditional data services and lower intra segment revenue. The following table presents certain subscriber and revenue generating units ("RGUs") information as of December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009 for the Companys cable television systems (excluding Optimum Lightpath): New York Metropolitan Area December 31, 2010 Bresnan Cable Service Area December 31, 2010 (1) Total December 31, 2010 September 30, 2010 December 31, 2009 (in thousands) Basic video customers 3,008 306 3,314 3,043 3,063 Digital video customers 2,906 205 3,111 2,921 2,893 High speed data customers 2,653 239 2,892 2,647 2,568 Voice customers 2,138 131 2,269 2,129 2,052 Total RGUs 10,705 881 11,586 10,740 10,576 (1) Reflects data related to Bresnan Cable, which was acquired by the Company on December 14, 2010. Total RGUs as of December 31, 2010, include 880,900 RGUs related to the acquisition of our Bresnan Cable system in December 2010. Excluding the impact of the Bresnan Cable system, the Company had a loss of 55,500 basic video customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of 45,100 in 2009. This is largely attributable to the impact of a retransmission consent dispute in October 2010, the economic downturn, and, to a lesser extent, intense competition, particularly from Verizon. For the year ended December 31, 2010, excluding the impact of the Bresnan Cable system, the Company added 128,600 RGUs as compared to 297,700 in 2009. These additions include increases in digital video customers of approximately 40,500 and 50,600 for the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting from the migration from analog to full digital across certain regions of our service area. The length of the economic downturn, along with intense competition, could impact our ability to maintain or increase our existing customers and revenue in the future. (69) Table of Contents Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) for 2010 increased $134,460 (6%) as compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in programming costs (including costs of on demand services) due primarily to rate increases (see discussion of MSG networks below), new program offerings and programming costs for the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system operations ($5,662), partially offset by lower subscribers to certain tiers of service $ 88,206 Nonrecurring settlement of a contractual fee matter related to years prior to 2009 recorded in the second quarter of 2010 (23,000 ) Increase in field operations and network related costs primarily due to lower capitalizable activities, general cost increases, costs associated with the operation of the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system ($5,003), and growth in RGUs 31,417 Nonrecurring contract termination charge related to the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system 14,375 Increase in franchise fees due to increase in video revenues and higher rates in certain regions 8,239 Impact of accrual reversals in 2009 due to legislative changes which clarified the applicability of certain VoIP fees 18,976 Lower termination rates, partially offset by higher interconnection costs due to the favorable resolution of certain disputed costs in 2009 (termination and interconnection costs are net of related intra segment eliminations) (3,532 ) Intra segment eliminations (221 ) $ 134,460 Technical and operating expenses consist primarily of programming costs and direct costs associated with providing and maintaining services to our customers. These costs typically rise as the number of RGUs grow and also due to general inflationary cost increases for employees, contractors, programming rates and other various expenses. Costs of field operations also increase as the portion of our expenses that we are able to capitalize decreases due to lower new customer installations and lower new service upgrades. Network related costs also fluctuate as capitalizable network upgrade and enhancement activity changes. Franchise fees are payable to the state governments and local municipalities where we operate and are based on a percentage of certain categories of revenue, primarily video rev enue which vary by state and municipality. These costs change in relation to changes in such categories of revenues or rate changes. We expect that our technical and operating expenses will continue to increase in the future. However, as a percentage of revenues, we expect these costs to remain relatively constant. Effective January 1, 2010, a new long term affiliation agreement was entered into between Cablevision and the MSG networks, which are owned by Madison Square Garden. This new long term affiliation agreement resulted in incremental programming costs to the Company of approximately $29,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the amount of programming costs recognized by the Company pursuant to the Companys arrangement with Madison Square Garden in 2009. This new affiliation agreement provides for the carriage of the MSG Network and MSG Plus program services on the Companys cable television systems in the tri state area. This agreement has a term of 10 years, obligates the Company to carry the MSG networks program services on its cable television systems and provides for the payment by t he Company to the MSG networks of a per subscriber license fee, which fee is increased each year during the term of the agreement. (70) Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $42,518 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in sales and marketing costs primarily due to increased customer promotions, higher commissions, higher advertising costs, including costs related to program carriage disputes, and costs associated with the operation of the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system ($2,003) $ 22,283 Impact of the favorable resolution of litigation, that resulted in a reversal of expense recognized in prior periods, recorded in 2009 5,579 Decrease in customer related costs in the New York metropolitan service area primarily due to a reduction in call center labor costs due to fewer calls handled, partially offset by increased RGUs and general cost increases (3,937 ) Increase in share based compensation expense and expenses relating to Cablevisions long term incentive plans 8,087 Other net increases primarily due to legal costs, other fees and employee costs in the New York metropolitan service area and administrative costs associated with the operation of the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system ($2,244) 10,733 Intra segment eliminations (227 ) $ 42,518 Selling, general and administrative expenses include customer related costs, principally from the operation and maintenance of our call center facilities that handle customer inquiries and billing and collection activities. These costs generally rise as the number of RGUs grow and also as a result of general inflationary cost increases for employees and other various expenses. Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of employee costs and advertising production and placement costs associated with acquiring and retaining customers. These costs may increase with intense competition. Depreciation and amortization decreased $32,890 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009. The net decrease resulted primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases and depreciation and amortization of $6,791 related to the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system. Adjusted operating cash flow increased $130,181 (6%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase was due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share based compensation, as discussed above. The year ended 2010 increase includes the $23,000 nonrecurring settlement of a contractual fee matter related to years prior to 2009 recorded in 2010, partially offset by a $14,375 nonrecurring contract termination charge related to the Bresnan Cable system. The increase in 2010 was also negatively impacted by the reversal of an accrual in 2009 due to legislative changes which clarified the applicability of certain VoIP fees of $18,976 and th e impact of the favorable resolution of litigation that resulted in a reversal of expense recognized in prior periods recorded in 2009 of $5,579. (71) Table of Contents Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Rainbow segment. The operations of News 12 Networks and RASCO which were previously included in the Rainbow segment have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 1,078,300 100 % $ 973,656 100 % $ 104,644 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) 366,129 34 310,407 32 (55,722 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 325,980 30 312,180 32 (13,800 ) Restructuring expense (credits) (2,218 ) 5,145 1 7,363 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 106,455 10 106,504 11 49 Operating income $ 281,954 26 $ 239,420 25 % $ 42,534 The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 281,954 $ 239,420 $ 42,534 Share based compensation 17,206 14,724 2,482 Restructuring expense (credits) (2,218 ) 5,145 (7,363 ) Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 106,455 106,504 (49 ) AOCF $ 403,397 $ 365,793 $ 37,604 The Rainbow segment consists of the national networks: AMC, WE tv, IFC, and Sundance Channel and other services which consist primarily of IFC Entertainment, Rainbow Network Communications ("RNC"), the international distribution channels: AMC (launched September 2006), Sundance (launched July 2009), WE tv (launched December 2009) and VOOM (the domestic programming of which ceased in January 2009). In January 2009, the domestic programming of VOOM was shut down. This decision had a favorable impact on the operating income of our Rainbow segment of $20,089 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as the loss of revenues from our VOOM business was more than offset by the elimination of most operating expenses of VOOM. The 2010 operating expenses included a restructuring credit of $2,218 as compared to a restructuring charge of $5,145 for the same period in the prior year. Currently, certain of the VOOM programming continues to be distributed internationally. (72) Table of Contents Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $104,644 (11%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in advertising/sponsorship revenues at the national networks primarily at AMC and WE tv resulting from higher pricing $ 56,333 Increase in affiliation fee revenues and other revenues at the national networks, primarily at AMC and WE tv and, to a lesser extent IFC resulting from increases in affiliation rates and subscribers (see table below). 41,746 Net increase in revenues, net from primarily foreign affiliation fee revenues due to an increase in both subscribers and the number of operators who carry our services and increased distribution revenues of IFC Entertainment due to increased volume of titles being distributed, partially offset by a decrease in origination fee revenue of RNC 10,113 Decrease in revenues, net due to the Companys decision to discontinue funding the domestic programming of VOOM in January 2009 and VOOMs lower foreign distribution revenue (3,548 ) $ 104,644 The decrease in revenues of VOOM was due primarily to the loss of carriage by Cablevision effective January 20, 2009. Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from an increase in affiliation rates charged for our services, an increase in the number of subscribers and an increase in the prices and level of advertising on our networks. The following table presents certain subscriber information at December 31, 2010 and 2009: Estimated Domestic Subscribers 2010 2009 (in thousands) National Programming Networks: AMC(1) 96,400 95,200 WE tv(1) 76,800 74,900 IFC(2) 62,700 50,100 Sundance Channel(3) 39,900 37,900 (1) Estimated U.S. subscribers as measured by Nielsen Media Research ("Nielsen"). (2) Nielsen measurement of IFC subscriber numbers began in December 2010. The 2009 subscriber count is based on internal management reports and represent viewing subscribers. (3) Subscriber counts are based on internal management reports and represents viewing subscribers because Sundance Channel is not measured by Nielsen. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $55,722 (18%) compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in programming costs at the national networks primarily at AMC and to a lesser extent, WE tv and IFC due to increased amortization of program rights $ 45,490 Net increase in programming costs at Rainbows other services (excluding VOOM) resulting primarily from the programming costs of certain internationally distributed Rainbow services and increased content acquisition costs at IFC Entertainment due to increased volume of titles being distributed 15,365 Decrease in programming costs at VOOM due to the Companys decision to discontinue funding the domestic and certain foreign programming of VOOM (5,133 ) $ 55,722 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 2% in 2010 compared to 2009. (73) Table of Contents There may be significant changes in the level of our technical and operating expenses from quarter to quarter and or changes from year to year due to content acquisition and or original programming costs. As additional competition for programming increases from programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for content acquisition and or original programming may increase. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $13,800 (4%) for 2010 compared to 2009. The net increase is attributable to the following: Net increase in selling, marketing and advertising costs at the national networks, primarily at AMC due to an increase in marketing expense resulting from an increase in the number of original programming premieres, partially offset by a decrease in such costs at IFC $ 8,540 Increase in general and administrative costs due to an increase in management fees at AMC and WE tv paid to CSC Holdings resulting from increased revenues and an increase at Rainbows other services (excluding VOOM) primarily related to certain internationally distributed Rainbow services and IFC Entertainment 4,177 Increase in selling, marketing and advertising costs at Rainbows other services, primarily from the recently launched foreign services, and at IFC Entertainment due to an increased volume of titles being distributed 4,525 Decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses at VOOM due primarily to lower legal expenses in connection with the DISH Network contract dispute (9,176 ) Net increase in share based compensation expense and expenses relating to Cablevisions long term incentive plans 5,734 $ 13,800 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2010 compared to 2009. There may be significant changes in the level of our selling, general and administrative expenses from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing of promotion and marketing of original programming and the number of premieres that occur during a quarter. Restructuring credit of $2,218 for the year ended December 31, 2010 represents primarily the negotiated reductions of contract termination costs originally recorded in 2008 following the Companys decision to discontinue funding the domestic programming of VOOM. Restructuring expense of $5,145 for the year ended December 31, 2009 represents primarily the impairment of program rights and contract termination costs due to the Companys decision in 2009 to discontinue funding certain international VOOM programming. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $49 in 2010 as compared to 2009. Depreciation expense decreased $3,023 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 due primarily to VOOM and RNC. Amortization expense increased $2,974 for 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to the increase in amortization resulting from a reduction in the estimated useful life of certain identifiable intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of Sundance Channel in June 2008, partially offset by a decrease in amortization due to certain intangible assets of AMC, WE tv and IFC becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009. Adjusted operating cash flow increased $37,604 in 2010 compared to 2009 due to an increase in revenues, net of $104,644, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses resulting primarily from an increase in program rights expense, excluding share based compensation, restructuring and depreciation and amortization expenses, as discussed above. See discussion of the proposed distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings on page 113. (74) Table of Contents Other The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for the Other segment. Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 465,975 100 % $ 494,266 100 % $ (28,291 ) Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) 346,318 74 350,006 71 3,688 Selling, general and administrative expenses 309,919 67 307,447 62 (2,472 ) Restructuring expense (credits) (58 ) 5,583 1 5,641 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 63,063 14 59,489 12 (3,574 ) Operating loss $ (253,267 ) (54 )% $ (228,259 ) (46 )% $ (25,008 ) The following is a reconciliation of operating loss to AOCF deficit: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating loss $ (253,267 ) $ (228,259 ) $ (25,008 ) Share based compensation 10,156 14,270 (4,114 ) Restructuring expense (credits) (58 ) 5,583 (5,641 ) Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 63,063 59,489 3,574 AOCF deficit $ (180,106 ) $ (148,917 ) $ (31,189 ) Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $28,291 (6%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Decrease in revenues at Newsday (to $314,148) due primarily to decreases in advertising revenues as a result of the continued challenging economic environment and competition from other media $ (28,188 ) Increase in advertising revenues at News 12 Networks and commission revenues at RASCO 10,128 Decrease in other revenues primarily at PVI and Clearview Cinemas (8,986 ) Intra segment eliminations (1,245 ) $ (28,291 ) Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $3,688 (1%) as compared to the prior year. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Decrease in expenses at Newsday (to $187,606) primarily due to a decrease in newsprint and ink expenses, a decrease in distribution expense driven primarily by declines in circulation and preprint advertising sales volume, and a decrease in production expenses driven primarily by the cost savings related to headcount reductions and the exiting of certain shopper publications, as well as the impact of lower union compensation costs $ (22,982 ) Increase in operating costs of the MSG Varsity network resulting from its September 2009 launch 18,516 Other net increases 778 $ (3,688 ) (75) Table of Contents Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $2,472 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Decrease in unallocated Corporate costs due primarily to an increase in allocations to business units of $12,504 and lower costs related to former employees of $11,168 $ (23,672 ) Charges to Madison Square Garden in 2010 for transition services (6,096 ) Increase in costs at MSG Varsity, RASCO and News 12 Networks 19,591 Transaction costs related to the Bresnan Cable acquisition 8,924 Other net increases 4,970 Intra segment eliminations (1,245 ) $ 2,472 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $3,574 (6%) as compared to the prior year. The net increase is primarily due to an impairment charge recorded at Newsday of $7,800 in 2010 relating to the estimated fair value of Newsdays indefinite lived intangible trademark, as compared to $2,000 in the prior year, and depreciation of new asset purchases, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated and a decrease in depreciation expense of $4,025 related to two Newsday printing presses that were phased out of service in mid year 2009. Restructuring expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to $5,583. This is comprised of $3,590 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 98 staff positions and $3,174 related to a lease modification termination penalty and other lease and contract exit costs at Newsday. Offsetting these expenses are restructuring credits of $1,181 related to adjustments in severance and facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans. Adjusted operating cash flow deficit increased $31,189 (21%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 (including AOCF of Newsday of $19,349 and $21,775 in 2010 and 2009, respectively). The increase was due primarily to a decrease in revenues, net, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share based compensation, as discussed above. (76) Table of Contents Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2009 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Consolidated Results Cablevision Systems Corporation Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $527,449 (8%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in revenues of the Telecommunication Services segment $ 266,133 Increase in revenues of the Rainbow segment, including revenues attributable to Sundance Channel acquired in June 2008 71,306 Increase in revenues of the Other segment, including revenues of Newsday resulting from its acquisition on July 29, 2008 158,262 Inter segment eliminations 31,748 $ 527,449 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) include primarily: cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per subscriber basis; network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections; amortization of program rights, including those for feature films and non film programming, participation and residual costs, and distribution and production related costs of our Rainbow segment; interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses which represent the transport and termination of calls with other telecommunications carriers; and publication production and distribution costs of our Newsday business. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) in 2009 increased $172,637 (7%) as compared to 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 25,701 Decrease in expenses of the Rainbow segment, including expenses attributable to Sundance Channel subsequent to acquisition in June 2008 (5,798 ) Increase in expenses of the Other segment, including expenses of Newsday resulting from its acquisition on July 29, 2008 116,238 Inter segment eliminations 36,496 $ 172,637 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 1% during 2009 as compared to 2008. (77) Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $138,869 (9%) for 2009 as compared to 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses of the Telecommunications Services segment $ 55,971 Increase in expenses of the Rainbow segment, including expenses attributable to Sundance subsequent to acquisition in June 2008 7,163 Increase in expenses of the Other segment, including expenses of Newsday resulting from its acquisition on July 29, 2008 80,483 Inter segment eliminations (4,748 ) $ 138,869 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2009 compared to 2008. Restructuring expense amounted to $10,728 in 2009 and $49,883 in 2008. The 2009 amount consisted of $5,162 resulting primarily from the Companys decision to discontinue the U.S. domestic programming of VOOM and charges of $6,496 relating to severance and other restructuring expenses recognized by our Newsday business, partially offset by net credits of $(930) primarily relating to adjustments to facility realignment provisions recorded in connection with prior restructuring plans. The 2008 amount primarily included the impairment of program rights of $40,974 and employee severance and other costs of $5,821 due to the Companys decision to discontinue the U.S. programming business of VOOM and $7,225 primarily relating to severance and other restructuring charge s recognized by our Newsday business. Partially offsetting these charges were net credits of $4,137 primarily associated with adjustments to facility realignment provisions and other costs recorded in connection with the 2001, 2002 and 2006 restructuring plans. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $418,620 for 2009 as compared to 2008. In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $400,880 related to indefinite lived intangibles, certain long lived intangible assets and goodwill at our Newsday business and a $15,034 write off of deferred carriage fees at VOOM after DISH Network ceased the distribution of VOOM in May 2008. Additionally, the net decrease consisted of a $32,045 decrease resulting primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases and increases resulting from the Newsday transaction of $13,516 (including impairment charges of $2,790 in 2009) and the acquisition of the Sundance Channel of $15,823. Adjusted operating cash flow increased $232,748 (11%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in AOCF of the Telecommunication Services segment $ 192,084 Increase in AOCF of the Rainbow segment, including AOCF attributable to Sundance acquired in June 2008 74,212 Decrease in AOCF of the Other segment, including AOCF of Newsday (acquired July 29, 2008) (33,548 ) $ 232,748 Interest expense, net decreased $39,272 (5%) during 2009 compared to 2008. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Decrease due to lower average interest rates on our indebtedness $ (88,618 ) Net increase due to increase in average debt balances 35,593 Lower interest income 4,649 Other net increases 9,104 $ (39,272 ) See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion below for a detail of our various borrower groups. (78) Table of Contents Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net of $2,130 and $805 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, resulted from the sale of our ownership interests in Sportskool and Lifeskool, which is being recorded under the installment sales method. Loss on investments, net for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $981 and $136,414, respectively. The 2009 amount consists primarily of the decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock owned by the Company and the unrealized and realized net loss associated with various other investments. The 2008 amount consists primarily of the net increase or decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock and General Electric common stock owned by the Company through the disposition of this stock in June 2008 and the unrealized and realized net loss of various other investments. The effects of these gains and losses are partially offset by the losses and gains on related equity derivative contracts, net described below. Gain on equity derivative contracts, net for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $631 and $118,219, respectively, consists of unrealized and realized gains due to the change in fair value of the Companys equity derivative contracts relating to the Comcast common stock owned by the Company during 2009 and 2008 and the General Electric common stock owned by the Company through the disposition of this stock in June 2008. The effects of these gains are partially offset by the losses on investment securities pledged as collateral, which are included in loss on investments, net discussed above. Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net amounted to $78,868 and $205,683 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a portion of the Companys floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates. The losses on interest rate swap contracts are a result of a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts. Loss on extinguishment of debt and write off of deferred financing costs of $73,457 for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted from tender premiums, fees and the write off of unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs associated with the repurchase of a portion of Cablevisions senior notes due April 2009 and CSC Holdings senior notes due July 2009, August 2009, April 2011, and April 2012 pursuant to our tender offers. Loss on extinguishment of debt of $2,424 for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted from the repayment of the Companys collateralized indebtedness relating to its holdings of shares of General Electric common stock during the second quarter of 2008. Income tax expense of $206,669 for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflected an effective tax rate of 45%. To address state income tax planning considerations, during 2009 certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies. In connection with such conversions, the Company recorded tax expense of $9,095 relating to the elimination of certain state NOLs and credit carry forwards. Absent this tax expense, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been 43%. The Company recorded tax benefit of $6,126 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes. A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry fo rwards resulted in a tax benefit of $1,427. The Company recorded tax expense of $3,009, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions. The Company recorded income tax benefit of $88,944 for the year ended December 31, 2008, reflecting an effective tax rate of 27%. The Company recorded tax benefit of $8,670 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes. An increase in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in tax expense of $6,602. The Company recorded tax expense of $2,694, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has fully offset federal taxable income with a net operating loss carry forward. However, the Company is subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and certain state and local income taxes that are payable quarterly. (79) Table of Contents Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $273 and $8,108, respectively, represent other parties share of the net losses of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements. Income from discontinued operations In February 2010, the Company completed the MSG Distribution. In June 2007, the Company completed the sale of its 60% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area, to Comcast. In addition, in April 2005, the operations of the Rainbow DBS satellite distribution business were shut down. As a result, the operating results of these businesses, net of income taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and noncontrolling interests: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Amount Amount Net operating results of Madison Square Garden, including transaction costs, net of income taxes $ 35,856 $ 7,112 Net operating results of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, net of income taxes (18 ) (943 ) Loss on sale of Fox Sports Net Bay Area, net of income taxes (3 ) $ 35,838 $ 6,166 Business Segments Results Telecommunications Services The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Telecommunications Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 5,431,500 100 % $ 5,165,367 100 % $ 266,133 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) 2,199,996 41 2,174,295 42 (25,701 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,034,284 19 978,313 19 (55,971 ) Depreciation and amortization 856,919 16 890,912 17 33,993 Operating income $ 1,340,301 25 % $ 1,121,847 22 % $ 218,454 (80) Table of Contents The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 1,340,301 $ 1,121,847 $ 218,454 Share based compensation 30,748 23,125 7,623 Depreciation and amortization 856,919 890,912 (33,993 ) AOCF $ 2,227,968 $ 2,035,884 $ 192,084 Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $266,133 (5%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Years Ended December 31, Increase Percent Increase 2009 2008 (Decrease) (Decrease) Video (including analog, digital, pay per view, video on demand and digital video recorder) $ 3,080,078 $ 2,961,421 $ 118,657 4 % High speed data 1,146,789 1,099,634 47,155 4 Voice 771,236 685,643 85,593 12 Advertising 105,633 115,574 (9,941 ) (9 ) Other (including installation, home shopping, advertising sales commissions, and other products) 94,066 98,736 (4,670 ) (5 ) Total Cable Television 5,197,802 4,961,008 236,794 5 Optimum Lightpath 255,549 248,776 6,773 3 Intra segment eliminations (21,851 ) (44,417 ) 22,566 51 Total Telecommunications Services $ 5,431,500 $ 5,165,367 $ 266,133 5 % Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from higher rates (primarily due to an increase of video rates of 3.5% on average, which was implemented beginning in December 2008), increases in the number of subscribers to our high speed data and voice services, including additional services sold to our existing video subscribers, upgrades by video customers from the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, and acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes. As a result, our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $144.03 as compared to $134.85 and $141.03 for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2009, respectively. We believe the decline in advertising revenue is primarily due to the impact of the economic downturn, which may continue. The increase in Optimum Lightpath net revenues is primarily attributable to growth in Ethernet data services and the acquisition of 4Connections LLC in October 2008, partially offset by reduced traditional data services and lower intra segment revenue. The decrease in intra segment eliminations for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the prior year includes a reduction of interconnection costs charged to Optimum Lightpath and passed through to Optimum Voice of approximately $6,835 resulting from the resolution of certain disputed amounts between Optimum Lightpath and a third party vendor. Additionally, Optimum Voice is purchasing fewer services from Optimum Lightpath res ulting from certain operational functions now being performed directly within cable operations. (81) Table of Contents The following table presents certain subscriber and revenue generating units ("RGUs") information as of December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 for the Companys cable television systems (excluding Optimum Lightpath): December 31, 2009 September 30, 2009 December 31, 2008 (in thousands) Basic video customers 3,063 3,066 3,108 Digital video customers 2,893 2,888 2,837 High speed data customers 2,568 2,522 2,455 Voice customers 2,052 2,001 1,878 Total RGUs 10,576 10,477 10,278 The Company had a loss of 45,100 basic video customers for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a loss of 14,900 in 2008. This is primarily due to the impact of the economic downturn, and, to a lesser extent, intensifying competition, particularly from Verizon. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company added 297,700 RGUs as compared to 653,400 in 2008. These additions include increases in iO digital video customers resulting from digital migration initiatives that eliminated the duplicate analog feeds of various channels carried in digital of approximately 50,600 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 93,800 in 2008. The growth in RGU additions slowed compared to the comparable period in 2008 as a result of the Companys relatively high penetration rates, the economic downturn and, to a lesser extent, the effects of intensifying competition, particularly from Verizon. The severity and length of the economic downturn, along with intensifying competition, could impact our ability to maintain or increase our existing customers and revenue in the future. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) for 2009 increased $25,701 (1%) as compared to 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in field operations and network related costs primarily due to growth in RGUs, lower capitalizable activities and general cost increases $ 54,313 Increase in franchise fees due to increase in video revenues and higher rates in certain regions 6,253 Decrease in programming costs (including costs of on demand services) primarily due to the termination of carriage of VOOMs programming in January 2009 and lower subscribers to certain tiers of service, partially offset by rate increases and new program offerings (1,601 ) Decrease in call completion and interconnection costs, taxes and fees (net of related intra segment eliminations) primarily due to legislative changes in 2009 which clarified the applicability of certain fees on VoIP of $23,818, of which $19,530 related to the reversal of fees accrued in prior periods, the favorable resolution of certain disputed interconnection costs of approximately $8,555, of which $6,458 related to the reversal of costs accrued in prior periods, and lower rates, partially offset by higher volume due to increased voice customers and other fees (33,542 ) Intra segment eliminations 278 $ 25,701 As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 1% during 2009 as compared to 2008. Technical and operating expenses consist primarily of programming costs and direct costs associated with providing and maintaining services to our customers. These costs typically rise as the number of RGUs grow and also due to general inflationary cost increases for employees, contractors, programming rates and other various expenses. Costs of field operations also increase as the portion of our expenses that we are able to capitalize decreases due to lower new customer installations and lower new service upgrades. Network related costs also fluctuate as capitalizable network upgrade and enhancement activity changes. Franchise fees are payable to the state governments and lo cal municipalities where we operate and are based on a percentage of certain categories of revenue, primarily video revenue which vary by state and municipality. These costs change in relation to changes in such categories of revenues or rate changes. We expect that our technical and operating expenses will continue to increase in the future. However, as a percentage of revenues, we expect these costs to remain relatively constant. (82) Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $55,971 (6%) for 2009 as compared to 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in sales and marketing costs primarily due to higher employee related costs $ 30,318 Favorable resolution of litigation that resulted in a reversal of expenses accrued in prior periods. (5,579 ) Increase in customer related costs primarily due to higher RGUs and general cost increases. 18,427 Increase in share based compensation expense and expenses relating to Cablevisions long term incentive plans 7,113 Increase in other general and administrative costs, primarily due to general cost increases, partially offset by severance charges of $2,347 in the first quarter of 2008 5,303 Intra segment eliminations 389 $ 55,971 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained essentially constant in 2009 as compared to 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses include customer related costs, principally from the operation and maintenance of our call center facilities that handle customer inquiries and billing and collection activities. These costs generally rise as the number of RGUs grow and also as a result of general inflationary cost increases for employees and other various expenses. We expect that our customer related costs will continue to increase in relatively the same proportion as increases in RGUs and general inflationary cost increases. Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of employee costs and advertising production and placement costs associated with a cquiring and retaining customers. These costs may continue to increase as competition continues to intensify. Depreciation and amortization decreased $33,993 (4%) for 2009 as compared to 2008. The net decrease resulted primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases. Adjusted operating cash flow increased $192,084 (9%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008. The increase was due primarily to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share based compensation, as discussed above. (83) Table of Contents Rainbow The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Rainbow segment. The operations of News 12 Networks and RASCO which were previously included in the Rainbow segment have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 973,656 100 % $ 902,350 100 % $ 71,306 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments) 310,407 32 316,205 35 5,798 Selling, general and administrative expenses(a) 312,180 32 305,017 34 (7,163 ) Restructuring expense 5,145 1 46,834 5 41,689 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 106,504 11 108,431 12 1,927 Operating income $ 239,420 25 % $ 125,863 14 % $ 113,557 (a) Rainbow corporate overhead costs previously allocated to Madison Square Garden that were not eliminated as a result of the MSG Distribution have been reclassified to continuing operations. The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating income $ 239,420 $ 125,863 $ 113,557 Share based compensation 14,724 10,453 4,271 Restructuring expense 5,145 46,834 (41,689 ) Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 106,504 108,431 (1,927 ) AOCF $ 365,793 $ 291,581 $ 74,212 The Rainbow segment consists of the national networks: AMC, WE tv, IFC, Sundance Channels operations from the date of acquisition (June 16, 2008) and other services which consist primarily of IFC Entertainment, Rainbow Network Communications ("RNC"), the international distribution channels: AMC (launched September 2006), Sundance (launched July 2009), WE tv (launched December 2009) and VOOM (the domestic programming of which ceased in January 2009). The 2008 period included Sportskool (sold in September 2008) and Lifeskool (sold in October 2008). In January 2009, the domestic programming of VOOM was shut down. This decision had a favorable impact on the operating income of our Rainbow segment of $76,760 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 as the loss of revenues from our VOOM business was more than offset by the elimination of most operating expenses of VOOM. The 2009 operating expenses included restructuring expenses of $5,162 as compared to $46,795 in the prior year. (84) Table of Contents Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $71,306 (8%) as compared to the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in affiliation fee revenues and other revenues at the national networks due primarily to having a full year of results of Sundance Channel (acquired June 2008) and from increases in affiliation rates and in subscribers (see table below).. $ 81,189 Increase in advertising/sponsorship revenues at the national networks due primarily to higher units sold at AMC, improved program ratings at WE tv and to a lesser extent, a full year of results of Sundance Channel (acquired June 2008) 38,842 Net increase in revenues, net from primarily distribution revenues of IFC Entertainment and transmission revenue of RNC, partially offset by a decrease in affiliation fee revenues following the sale of Lifeskool (October 2008) and Sportskool (September 2008) 2,794 Decrease in revenues, net due to the Companys decision in December 2008 to discontinue the domestic programming of VOOM (January 2009) (51,519 ) $ 71,306 The decrease in revenues of VOOM was due primarily to the loss of DISH Networks carriage in May 2008 and the loss of carriage by Cablevision effective January 20, 2009. Revenue increases discussed above are primarily derived from increases in the level of advertising on our networks and increases in affiliation fee revenues derived from affiliation rates charged for our services and in the number of subscribers. The following table presents certain subscriber information at December 31, 2009 and 2008: Estimated Domestic Subscribers 2009 2008 (in thousands) National Programming Networks: AMC(1) 95,200 94,500 WE tv(1) 74,900 72,000 IFC(2) 50,100 48,900 Sundance Channel(3) 37,900 30,800 (1) Estimated U.S. subscribers as measured by Nielsen Media Research ("Nielsen"). (2) The 2009 and 2008 subscriber counts are based on internal management reports and represent viewing subscribers. (3) Subscriber counts are based on internal management reports and represent viewing subscribers because Sundance Channel is not measured by Nielsen. Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments) for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $5,798 (2%) compared to 2008. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Decrease in programming costs at VOOM due to the Companys decision in December 2008 to discontinue funding the domestic programming of VOOM in January 2009 $ (54,892 ) Increase in programming costs at the national networks primarily at AMC and WE tv due to increased amortization of non film program rights and, to a lesser extent, Sundance Channel (acquired June 2008) and IFC 42,682 Net increase in programming costs at Rainbows other services (excluding VOOM) resulting primarily from an increase in programming costs at IFC Entertainment. 6,412 $ (5,798 ) As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 3% during 2009 as compared to 2008 due primarily to the decrease in programming costs at VOOM as noted above. (85) Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7,163 (2%) in 2009 as compared to 2008. The net increase is attributable to the following: Net increase in selling and marketing costs at the national networks relating primarily to the marketing and promotional activities of Sundance Channel (acquired June 2008), partially offset by a decrease in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming at IFC $ 9,159 Net increase in administrative costs due primarily to increased parent company allocations, and to a lesser extent management fees at AMC and WE tv paid to CSC Holdings resulting from increased revenues, partially offset by a decrease in administrative costs following the sale of Lifeskool (October 2008) and Sportskool (September 2008). 6,233 Net increase in selling and marketing costs at Rainbows other services (excluding VOOM) 385 Decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses at VOOM due to the Companys decision in December 2008 to discontinue funding the domestic programming of VOOM in January 2009 (12,815 ) Increase in share based compensation expense and expenses relating to Cablevisions long term incentive plans 4,201 $ 7,163 As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2009 compared to 2008. Restructuring expense of $5,145 for the year ended December 31, 2009 represents primarily the impairment of program rights and contract termination costs due to the Companys decision in 2009 to discontinue funding certain international VOOM programming. Restructuring expense of $46,834 for the year ended December 31, 2008 represents primarily the impairment of program rights of $40,974 and employee severance and other costs of $5,821 due to the Companys decision to discontinue the domestic programming of VOOM. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $1,927 (2%) in 2009 as compared to 2008. Amortization expense (including impairments) decreased $1,480 for 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to a $15,034 write off of deferred carriage fees recorded in 2008 at VOOM HD Networks after DISH Network ceased the distribution of VOOM in May 2008 and a decrease in amortization expense of $1,499 due to certain identifiable intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by an increase of $15,053 due to the increase in amortization of identifiable intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Sundance Channel in June 2008. Depreciation expense decreased $447 in 2009 as compared to 2008. Adjusted operating cash flow increased $74,212 in 2009 compared to 2008 due to an increase in revenues, net of $71,306 due primarily to the national networks, including Sundance Channel (acquired June 2008), partially offset by an increase in operating expenses, excluding share based compensation, restructuring and depreciation and amortization expenses, as discussed above. (86) Table of Contents Other The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for the Other segment. Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Amount % of Net Revenues Amount % of Net Revenues Favorable (Unfavorable) Revenues, net $ 494,266 100 % $ 336,004 100 % $ 158,262 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) 350,006 71 233,768 70 (116,238 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 307,447 62 226,964 68 (80,483 ) Restructuring expense 5,583 1 3,049 (1 ) (2,534 ) Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 59,489 12 442,189 132 382,700 Operating loss $ (228,259 ) (46 )% $ (569,966 ) (170 )% $ 341,707 The following is a reconciliation of operating loss to AOCF deficit: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Favorable Amount Amount (Unfavorable) Operating loss $ (228,259 ) $ (569,966 ) $ 341,707 Share based compensation 14,270 9,359 4,911 Restructuring expense 5,583 3,049 2,534 Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) 59,489 442,189 (382,700 ) AOCF deficit $ (148,917 ) $ (115,369 ) $ (33,548 ) Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $158,262 as compared to revenues, net for the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in revenues at Newsday (from $180,597 for the period from July 30, 2008 to December 31, 2008 to $342,336 for the full year of 2009) $ 161,739 Decrease in advertising and affiliate revenues at News 12 Networks and decrease in commission revenues at RASCO (8,054 ) Increase in other revenues primarily at PVI and Clearview Cinemas 5,228 Intra segment eliminations (651 ) $ 158,262 Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below) for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $116,238 (50%) as compared to the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses at Newsday (from $110,955 for the period from July 30, 2008 to December 31, 2008 to $210,588 for the full year of 2009) $ 99,633 Increase in operating costs of the MSG Varsity Network launched in September 2009 8,487 Increase in operating costs of Clearview Cinemas 7,338 Other net increases 780 $ 116,238 (87) Table of Contents Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $80,483 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the prior year. The net decrease is attributable to the following: Increase in expenses at Newsday (from $51,194 for the period from July 30, 2008 to December 31, 2008 to $110,660 for the full year of 2009) $ 59,466 Increase in unallocated corporate costs due to costs related to former employees 12,242 Increase in unallocated corporate general and administrative costs 7,353 Decrease in corporate legal costs (8,459 ) Increase in costs at MSG Varsity Network, RASCO and News 12 Networks 7,780 Other net increases 2,752 Intra segment eliminations (651 ) $ 80,483 Restructuring expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to $5,583. This was comprised of $3,590 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 98 staff positions and $3,174 related to a lease modification termination penalty and other lease and contract exit costs at Newsday. Offsetting these expenses were restructuring credits of $1,181 related to adjustments in severance and facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans. For the year ended December 31, 2008 restructuring expense amounted to $3,049 and consisted of $5,181 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 106 staff positions, $572 related to lease and other contract exit costs, and $1,472 related to the write off of intangible assets due to the shut down of a publishing business at Newsday. These expenses were partially offset by credits of $4,176 related to adjustments in corporate facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans. Depreciation and amortization (including impairments) decreased $382,700 in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to impairment charges of $400,880 related to indefinite lived intangibles, certain long lived intangible assets and goodwill at Newsday recorded in 2008, partially offset by an increase resulting from a full year of depreciation and amortization at Newsday of $13,516 (including impairment charges of $2,790) in 2009. Adjusted operating cash flow deficit increased $33,548 (29%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008, net of an increase in AOCF at Newsday of $3,009 (from $18,766 in 2008 to $21,775 in 2009). The increase was due to an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share based compensation, partially offset by an increase in revenues, net, as discussed above. (88) Table of Contents CSC HOLDINGS, LLC The consolidated statements of operations of CSC Holdings are essentially identical to the consolidated statements of operations of Cablevision, except for the following: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net income (loss) attributable to Cablevision Systems Corporation shareholders $ 360,948 $ 285,572 $ (228,064 ) Interest expense relating to Cablevision senior notes issued in April 2004, September 2009 and April 2010 included in Cablevisions consolidated statements of operations 180,083 114,120 125,874 Interest income related to cash held at Cablevision (176 ) (383 ) (591 ) Interest income included in CSC Holdings consolidated statements of operations related to interest on Cablevisions senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC (this interest income is eliminated in the consolidated statements of operations of Cablevision) 60,506 62,405 26,155 Loss on extinguishment of debt and write off of deferred financing costs related to the repurchase of a portion of Cablevisions senior notes due April 2012 pursuant to a tender offer 110,049 587 Miscellaneous expense (income) (14 ) (4 ) Income tax benefit included in Cablevisions consolidated statements of operations related to the items listed above (137,119 ) (71,078 ) (59,645 ) Net income (loss) attributable to CSC Holdings LLCs sole member $ 574,277 $ 391,223 $ (136,275 ) Refer to Cablevisions Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein. Cash Flow Discussion Continuing Operations Cablevision Systems Corporation Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,695,837 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1,506,758 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,359,266 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $683,816 of non cash items and a $98,705 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $301,829 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $99,938 increase in current and other assets and a $44,183 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $189,079 in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulted from an increase in income from con tinuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non cash items of $136,049 and an increase of $53,030 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,506,758 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1,323,097 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,272,373 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $634,660 of non cash items and a $7,857 increase in deferred revenue. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $249,927 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $50,265 decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, a $55,105 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts, and a $52,835 increase in current and other assets. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $183,661 in 2009 as compared to 2008 resulted from a n increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non cash items of $411,671, partially offset by a decrease of $228,010 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items. (89) Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,323,097 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,199,194 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $296,168 of non cash items, a $153,417 increase in liabilities under derivative contracts and a $50,670 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $245,110 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $115,158 increase in current and other assets, and a $16,084 decrease in deferred carriage fees payable. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2,189,009 compared to $744,219 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 investing activities consisted primarily of $1,356,820 of payments related primarily to the acquisition of Bresnan Cable and $840,488 of capital expenditures ($779,928 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by other net cash receipts of $8,299. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $744,219 compared to $1,650,971 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 investing activities consisted primarily of $750,943 of capital expenditures ($696,492 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by other net cash receipts of $6,724. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1,650,971. The 2008 investing activities consisted primarily of $853,909 of capital expenditures ($783,711 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), $782,590 of payments relating primarily to the acquisitions of Newsday, Sundance Channel and 4Connections LLC, and other net cash payments aggregating $14,472. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $651,300 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $793,512 for the year ended December 31, 2009. In 2010, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds of $1,500,000 from the issuance of senior notes, net proceeds of credit facility debt of $932,712, partially offset by the repurchase of senior notes and debentures pursuant to a tender offer of $1,078,212, treasury stock purchases of $300,247, the repayment of the note payable to Madison Square Garden of $190,000, dividend payments to common shareholders of $140,734, additions to deferred financing costs of $65,723 and other net cash payments of $6,496. Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $793,512 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $357,904 for the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of the repayment and repurchase of senior notes of $2,398,740, net repayments of credit facility debt of $355,000, dividend payments to common shareholders of $123,499, additions to deferred financing costs of $49,775 and other net cash payments of $4,782, partially offset by proceeds of $2,138,284 from the issuance of senior notes. Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $357,904 for the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2008, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $765,000, proceeds of $500,000 from the issuance of senior notes and proceeds from the issuance of a note payable to an affiliate of $60,000, partially offset by the redemption of senior notes of $500,000, net repayments of collateralized indebtedness of $364,660, dividend payments to common shareholders of $64,854, additions to deferred financing costs of $35,939, and other net cash payments of $1,643. (90) Table of Contents Continuing Operations CSC Holdings, LLC Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,944,226 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1,656,694 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,572,595 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $693,434 of non cash items and a $97,100 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $301,829 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $72,891 increase in current and other assets and a $44,183 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $287,532 in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulted from an increase in income from con tinuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non cash items of $198,146 and an increase of $89,386 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,656,694 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1,311,900 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,378,024 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $689,859 of non cash items and a $7,857 increase in deferred revenue. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $249,927 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $63,913 decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, a $55,105 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts, and a $50,101 increase in current and other assets. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $344,794 in 2009 as compared to 2008 resu lted from an increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non cash items of $432,222, partially offset by a decrease of $87,428 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,311,900 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,290,983 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $344,678 of non cash items, a $153,417 increase in liabilities under derivative contracts and a $51,063 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $245,110 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $157,515 increase in amounts due from affiliates, a $109,532 increase in current and other assets, and a $16,084 decrease in deferred carriage fees payable. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2,189,009 compared to $744,219 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 investing activities consisted primarily of $1,356,820 of payments relating primarily to the acquisition of Bresnan Cable and $840,488 of capital expenditures ($779,928 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by other net cash receipts of $8,299. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $744,219 compared to $1,650,971 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 investing activities consisted primarily of $750,943 of capital expenditures ($696,492 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by other net cash receipts of $6,724. (91) Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1,650,971. The 2008 investing activities consisted primarily of $853,909 of capital expenditures ($783,711 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), $782,590 of payments relating primarily to the acquisitions of Newsday, Sundance Channel and 4Connections LLC, and other net cash payments aggregating $14,472. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $396,826 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $956,506 for the year ended December 31, 2009. In 2010, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $932,712 and proceeds of $250,000 from the issuance of senior notes, partially offset by net distributions made to Cablevision of $551,013, the repayment of the note payable to Madison Square Garden of $190,000, additions to deferred financing costs of $39,131 and other net cash payments of $5,742. Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $956,506 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $369,928 for the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of the repayment and repurchase of senior notes of $1,898,225, net repayments of credit facility debt of $355,000, additions to deferred financing costs of $30,754 and other net cash payments of $4,962, partially offset by proceeds of $1,250,920 from the issuance of senior notes and net contributions from Cablevision of $81,515. Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $369,928 for the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2008, the Companys financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $765,000, proceeds of $500,000 from the issuance of senior notes and proceeds from the issuance of a note payable to an affiliate of $60,000, partially offset by the redemption of senior notes of $500,000, net repayments of collateralized indebtedness of $364,660, distributions made to Cablevision of $48,867, additions to deferred financing costs of $35,858, and other net cash payments of $5,687. Discontinued Operations Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC The net effect of discontinued operations on cash and cash equivalents amounted to a cash outflow of $9,209 for the year ended December 31, 2010 and a cash inflow of $23,976, and $16,718 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $29,326 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations of $131,113 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 cash used in operating activities resulted from a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities of $37,972, an increase in current and other assets of $4,452 and an increase in program rights of $3,470. Partially offsetting these decreases was net income of $2,477 before depreciation and amortization and non cash items of $14,091. Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $131,113 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $33,595 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from net income of $150,665 before depreciation and amortization and non cash items, partially offset by a net decrease in cash resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities of $19,552. Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $33,595 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from net income of $97,017 before depreciation and amortization and non cash items, partially offset by a $58,293 cash payment to settle the Loral contract dispute and a decrease in cash resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities of $5,129. (92) Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $5,997 compared to $64,543 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 investing activities represent capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $64,543 compared to $40,255 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $59,361 and other net cash payments of $5,182. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $40,255 and include capital expenditures of $55,192 and an increase in other investments of $37,632, partially offset by a decrease in restricted cash of $52,569 relating to the settlement of the Loral contract dispute. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $8,204 compared to $3,604 for the year ended December 31, 2009. The 2010 financing activities consist of additions to deferred financing of $8,069 and payments on capital lease obligations of $135. Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $3,604 compared to $61,277 for the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 financing activities consist of additions to deferred financing of $2,530 and payments for capital lease obligations of $1,222, partially offset by contributions from Cablevision of $148. Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $61,277. The 2008 financing activities consist of the increase to a note receivable from Cablevision of $60,000, payments for capital lease obligations of $1,101 and distributions to Cablevision of $176. (93) Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Cablevision has no operations independent of its subsidiaries. Cablevisions outstanding securities consist of CNYG Class A common stock, CNYG Class B common stock and approximately $2,931,000 of debt securities, including approximately $2,177,000 face value of debt securities held by third party investors and approximately $754,000 held by Newsday Holdings LLC. The $754,000 of notes are eliminated in Cablevisions consolidated financial statements and are shown as notes due from Cablevision in the consolidated equity of CSC Holdings. Cablevision Issuance of Debt Securities On April 15, 2010, Cablevision issued $750,000 aggregate principal amount of 7 3/4% senior notes due April 15, 2018 and $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 15, 2020 (collectively, the " 2010 Notes") in a registered public offering. The 2010 Notes are Cablevisions senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Cablevisions other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. Cablevision may redeem all or a portion of the Notes at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2010 Notes redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date plus a "make whole" premium. The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to repurchase the April 2012 Not es (as defined below) in the tender offer Cablevision commenced on April 12, 2010 discussed below and for general corporate purposes. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $26,481, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes. Cablevision Tender Offer for 8% Senior Notes due 2012 Debt On April 12, 2010, Cablevision announced that it commenced a cash tender offer for its outstanding $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 2012 ("April 2012 Notes") for total consideration of $1,105.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,045.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $60.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes. In connection with the tender offer, Cablevision repurchased $973,175 aggregate principal amount of the April 2012 Notes in the second quarter of 2010. Tender premiums aggregating approximately $102,000, along with other transaction costs of approximately $3,000, have been recorded in loss on extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of operation s for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, unamortized deferred financing costs related to the April 2012 Notes aggregating approximately $5,000 were written off in 2010. In connection with the tender offer described above, and in accordance with the Companys agreements with Tribune Company, Cablevision redeemed all of its April 2012 Notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC with a face value of $682,000 for $758,968. Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7 3/4% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest from April 15, 2010, all in accordance with the terms of the Newsday $650,000 senior secured credit facility. As a result of the redemption of the April 2012 Notes, CSC Holdings recorded an increase to other members equity of $92,192. Funding for the debt service requirements of our debt securities is provided by our subsidiaries operations, principally CSC Holdings, as permitted by the covenants governing CSC Holdings credit agreements and indentures. Funding for our subsidiaries is generally provided by cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under credit facilities made available to the Restricted Group (as later defined) RNS, Bresnan Cable, and the proceeds from the issuance of securities in the capital markets. Our decision as to the use of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under credit facilities of the Restricted Group, RNS and Bresnan Cable will be based upon an ongoing review of the funding needs of the business, the optimal allocation of cash resources, the timing of cash flow gene ration and the cost of borrowing under each respective credit agreement. Moreover, we will monitor the credit markets and may seek opportunities to issue debt, the proceeds of which could be used to meet our future cash funding requirements. The Company has accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future. (94) Table of Contents We have assessed the implications of the volatility in the capital and credit markets on our ability to repay our scheduled debt maturities over the next 12 months and we currently believe that a combination of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facilities should provide us with sufficient liquidity to repay such scheduled current debt maturities in the next 12 months totaling approximately $533,248 under our credit facilities and senior notes as of December 31, 2010. However, additional market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as cable television services, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customers inability to pay for the services we provide. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Although we currently believe that amounts available under our CSC Holdings, RNS and Bresnan Cable revolving credit facilities will be available when, and if needed, we can provide no assurance that access to such funds will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. In the longer term, we do not expect to be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund anticipated capital expenditures, meet all existing future contractual payment obligations and repay our debt at maturity. As a result, we will be dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets. We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations, and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to do so, we will need to take other actions including deferring capital expenditures, selling assets, seeking strategic investments from third parties or reducing or eliminating dividend payments and stock repurchases or other discretionar y uses of cash. (95) Table of Contents The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010: Restricted Group Rainbow National Services Newsday LLC(a) Bresnan Cable Other Entities Eliminations(b) Total CSC Holdings Cablevision Eliminations(c) Total Cablevision Credit facility debt $ 4,349,112 $ 475,000 $ 650,000 $ 757,398 $ $ $ 6,231,510 $ $ $ 6,231,510 Capital lease obligations 14,854 1,574 40,886 (5,825 ) 51,489 51,489 Senior notes and debentures 3,152,505 299,552 250,000 3,702,057 2,919,405 (753,717 ) 5,867,745 Senior subordinated notes 324,071 324,071 324,071 Collateralized indebtedness relating to stock monetizations 352,606 352,606 352,606 Total debt $ 7,501,617 $ 1,113,477 $ 651,574 $ 1,007,398 $ 393,492 $ (5,825 ) $ 10,661,733 $ 2,919,405 $ (753,717 ) $ 12,827,421 Interest expense $ 427,690 $ 74,190 $ 69,129 $ 6,589 $ 29,412 $ $ 607,010 $ 240,589 $ (60,506 ) $ 787,093 Capital expenditures $ 761,374 $ 1,332 $ 4,155 $ 7,379 $ 66,248 $ $ 840,488 $ $ $ 840,488 (a) CSC Holdings has guaranteed Newsday LLCs obligation under its $650,000 senior secured credit facility. For purposes of the Restricted Group credit facility and indentures, guarantees are treated as indebtedness. The total debt for the Restricted Group reflected in the table above does not include the $650,000 guarantee. (b) Represents capital lease obligations between subsidiaries of the Company that are eliminated in consolidation. (c) Represents the elimination of the senior notes issued by Cablevision and held by Newsday Holdings LLC. (96) Table of Contents The following table provides details of the Companys outstanding credit facility debt: Weighted Average Interest Rate at Carrying Value at December 31, Maturity Date December 31, 2010 2010 2009 Restricted Group: Revolving loan facility(a) February 24, 2012 1.01 % $ 77,990 $ Extended revolving loan facility March 31, 2015 2.51 % 617,010 50,000 Term A 1 loan facility February 24, 2012 1.01 % 69,016 650,000 Term A 3 extended loan facility March 31, 2015 2.51 % 449,259 Term B loan facility March 29, 2013 2.01 % 324,254 2,210,994 Term B 2 extended loan facility March 29, 2016 3.51 % 1,145,728 1,157,756 Term B 3 extended loan facility March 29, 2016 3.26 % 1,665,855 Restricted Group credit facility debt 4,349,112 4,068,750 Rainbow National Services: Term A loan facility June 30, 2013 1.26 % 425,000 450,000 Revolving loan facility June 30, 2012 1.26 % 50,000 130,000 Incremental revolving loan facility(b) June 30, 2012 Rainbow National Services credit facility debt 475,000 580,000 Bresnan Cable: Term loan facility December 14, 2017 4.50 % 757,398 Revolving loan facility(c) December 14, 2015 Bresnan Cable credit facility debt 757,398 Newsday: Fixed term rate loan facility August 1, 2013 10.50 % 525,000 525,000 Floating term rate loan facility August 1, 2013 6.54 % 125,000 125,000 Newsday credit facility debt 650,000 650,000 Total credit facility debt $ 6,231,510 $ 5,298,750 (a) At December 31, 2010, $58,372 of the revolving loan facility was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of CSC Holdings and $659,081 of the revolving loan facilities was undrawn and available to be drawn to meet the net funding and investment requirements of the Restricted Group. (b) Total undrawn revolver commitments at December 31, 2010 consist of $250,000 under the original revolver and another $280,000 under an Incremental Revolver, which are available to be drawn to meet the net funding and investment requirements of RNS. (c) At December 31, 2010, $350 of the revolving credit facility was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of Bresnan Cable and $74,650 of the revolver was undrawn and available to be drawn to meet the net funding and investment requirements of Bresnan Cable. (97) Table of Contents The following table provides details of the Companys capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Capital Expenditures Consumer premise equipment $ 300,221 $ 328,148 Scalable infrastructure 180,562 131,847 Line extensions 36,137 30,501 Upgrade/rebuild 19,701 18,593 Support 145,153 103,959 Total Cable Television 681,774 613,048 Optimum Lightpath 98,154 83,444 Total Telecommunications 779,928 696,492 Rainbow 17,243 13,419 Other 43,317 41,032 Total Cablevision $ 840,488 $ 750,943 Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 and thereafter, including capital leases and related interest and the value deliverable at maturity under monetization contracts as of December 31, 2010 are as follows: Cablevision Restricted Group Rainbow National Services Bresnan Cable Newsday Other Entities Total 2011 $ $ 475,598 $ 52,417 $ 7,650 $ 619 $ 167,733 (a) $ 704,017 2012 26,825 659,052 402,481 7,650 339 150,961 (a) 1,247,308 2013 199,879 327,481 7,650 650,255 45,859 1,231,124 2014 1,061,016 327,481 7,650 221 2,786 1,399,154 2015 1,200,463 2,481 7,650 195 25,820 1,236,609 Thereafter 2,150,000 3,993,517 10,229 976,750 135 1,575 7,132,206 (b) Total $ 2,176,825 $ 7,589,525 $ 1,122,570 $ 1,015,000 $ 651,764 $ 394,734 $ 12,950,418 (a) Cablevision has the option, at maturity, to deliver the shares of common stock underlying the monetization contracts along with proceeds from the related derivative contracts in full satisfaction of the maturing collateralized indebtedness or obtain the required cash equivalent of the common stock through new monetization and derivative contracts. The amounts included in the table are $161,358 in 2011, $148,175 in 2012 and $43,073 in 2013. (b) Excludes the $487,500 principal amount of Cablevision 7.75% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 principal amount of Cablevision 8.00% senior notes due 2020 contributed to CSC Holdings, which in turn contributed such notes to Newsday Holdings LLC, which in turn pledged those senior notes to the lenders under its credit facility. Restricted Group As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings and those of its subsidiaries which conduct our cable television video operations in the New York metropolitan area, and high speed data service, and our VoIP services operations, as well as Optimum Lightpath, our commercial data and voice service business, comprise the "Restricted Group" as they are subject to the covenants and restrictions of the credit facility and indentures governing the notes and debentures securities issued by CSC Holdings. In addition, the Restricted Group is also subject to the covenants of the debt issued by Cablevision. Sources of cash for the Restricted Group include primarily cash flow from the operations of the businesses in the Restricted Group, borrowings under its credit facility and issuance of securities in the capital markets and, from time to time, distributions or loans from its subsidiaries. The Restricted Groups principal uses of cash include: capital spending, in particular, the capital requirements associated with the growth of its services such as digital video, high speed data and voice (including enhancements to its service offerings such as a broadband wireless network (WiFi)); debt service, including distributions made to Cablevision to service interest expense on its debt securities; distributions to Cablevision to fund dividends payable to stockholders of CNYG Class A and CNYG Class B common stock; distributions to Ca blevision to fund share repurchases; other corporate expenses and changes in working capital; and investments that it may fund from time to time. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of the Restricted Group for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and available borrowings under the Restricted Groups credit facility. (98) Table of Contents Amendment and Restatement of Credit Facility On April 13, 2010, CSC Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Restricted Subsidiaries") entered into an amended credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), providing for (i) an amendment and restatement of the credit agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, as first amended and restated in its entirety as of May 27, 2009 and further amended and restated in its entirety as of April 13, 2010, and (ii) an amendment to the Incremental Term Supplement, dated as of March 29, 2006 and amended as of May 27, 2009. Among other things, the Credit Agreement provides for the specific mechanics of extending, from time to time, the revolving credit commitments, term A loans, incremental term loans and any additional facility commitments or additional facility loans, as applicable, with the terms of such extended facility to be documented at the time of such extension in an extended facility agreement. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, CSC Holdings entered into three extended facilities as of April 13, 2010, as follows: an extended revolving credit facility agreement (the "Extended Revolving Credit Facility") that provided for the extension of the availability period for lenders holding approximately $820,000 of revolving credit commitments under CSC Holdings $1,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility to March 31, 2015. Lenders under the Extended Revolving Credit Facility are entitled to an extension fee payment of between 2.00% and 2.50% per annum of the outstanding loans under the Extended Revolving Credit Facility, based upon the cash flow ratio applicable from time to time. In addition, revolving credit lenders with revolving credit commitments in the aggregate amount of $412,000 executed joinders to the Credit Agreement agreeing to provide increased revolving credit commitments with an availability period expiring on March 31, 2015. an extended term A facility agreement (the "extended term A facility") that provided for the extension of the maturity date for lenders holding approximately $480,000 of loans under CSC Holdings existing $650,000 Term A facility, at the time of the launch of the transaction, to March 31, 2015. Lenders under the extended term A facility are entitled to an extension fee payment of between 2.00% and 2.50% per annum of the outstanding loans under the extended term A facility, based upon the cash flow ratio applicable from time to time. an extended incremental term facility agreement (the "term B 3 extended loan facility") that provided for the extension of the maturity date for lenders holding approximately $1,678,000 under CSC Holdings existing $2,200,000 incremental term facility, at the time of the launch of the transaction, to March 29, 2016. Lenders under the term B 3 extended loan facility are entitled to an extension fee payment of 1.25% per annum of the outstanding loans under the term B 3 extended loan facility. On June 30, 2010, the availability period for $20,000 of revolving credit commitments under CSC Holdings Revolving Credit Facility was extended to March 31, 2015 and the maturity date of $4,786 of loans under CSC Holdings existing term A facility was extended to March 31, 2015. The revolver has no required interim repayments. The term A 1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments of approximately $17,254 in 2011. The extended term A facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $12,142 through March 2012, approximately $18,213 beginning in June 2012 through March 2013, approximately $24,284 beginning in June 2013 through March 2014 and approximately $54,640 beginning in June 2014 through its maturity date in March 2015. The term B loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $851 through March 2012 and approximately $80,000 beginning on June 30, 2012 through its maturity date in March 2013. The term B 2 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $3,007 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,085,585 upon maturity in March 2016. The term B 3 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $4,196 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,581,933 upon maturity in March 2016. The borrowings under the Restricted Group credit facility may be repaid without penalty at any time. (99) Table of Contents Loans under the Restricted Group credit facility are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries. In April 2010, the Company utilized $200,000 of its increased revolver commitments to make a $200,000 pre payment of the unextended term B loan facility. In addition, in December 2010, the Company utilized $395,000 of its revolver commitments to make a $395,000 equity contribution in Bresnan Cable. On May 27, 2009, CSC Holdings entered into an agreement that provided for an extension of the maturity date from March 29, 2013 to March 29, 2016 of approximately $1,166,778 of the $3,395,000 then outstanding principal amount of the term B loan under its credit facility. Consenting lenders received a one time amendment fee of five basis points (.05%) on their total loan commitments. Lenders who elected to extend their loan commitments will be paid an annual extension fee of 1.5% of their loan commitments through maturity on March 29, 2016. In connection with the extension of these loan commitments, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $1,867. The principal financial covenants for the Restricted Group credit facility are summarized below: Maximum Total Leverage to Cash Flow(a) Maximum Senior Secured Leverage to Cash Flow(a) Minimum Ratio of Cash Flow to Interest Expense(a) Minimum Ratio of Cash Flow Less Cash Taxes to Total Debt(a) Revolving loan facility 4.5 3.0 2.0 to 1 1.5 to 1 Extended revolving loan facility 4.5 3.0 2.0 to 1 1.5 to 1 Term A 1 loan facility 4.5 3.0 2.0 to 1 1.5 to 1 Term A 3 extended loan facility 4.5 3.0 2.0 to 1 1.5 to 1 Term B loan facility(b) 5.0 4.5 n/a n/a Term B 2 extended loan facility(b) 5.0 4.5 n/a n/a Term B 3 extended loan facility(b) 5.0 4.5 n/a n/a (a) As defined in each respective credit facility. (b) Incurrence based only. These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit CSC Holdings ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds. Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt. Under the revolving credit facility, the extended revolving loan facility, the term A 1 loan facility, the term A 3 extended loan facility, the term B loan facility, the term B 2 extended loan facility, and the term B 3 extended loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in the term A 1 loan facility). CSC Holdings ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the term B loan facility, term B 2 extended loan facility, term B 3 extended loan facility, and the indentures covering CSC Holdings notes and debentures. (100) Table of Contents The Restricted Group was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its various credit agreements as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings was party to several interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $2,600,000 that effectively fixed borrowing rates on a portion of the Companys floating rate debt. Interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $1,100,000 matured in March 2010. These contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. As a result of the CSC Holdings interest rate swap transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 75% of the Companys outstanding debt (excluding capital leases and collateralized indebtedness) is effectively fixed (54% being fixed rate obligations and 21% is effectively fixed through utilization of these interest rate swap contracts) as of December 31, 2010. The table below summarizes certain ter ms of these interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2010: Maturity Date Notional Amount Weighted Average Fixed Rate Paid by the Company Weighted Average Effective Floating Rate Received by the Company at December 31, 2010* June 2012 $ 2,600,000 4.86 % 0.30 % * Represents the floating rate received by the Company under its interest rate swap contracts at December 31, 2010 and does not represent the rates to be received by the Company on future payments. Rainbow National Services RNS, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, owns the Companys AMC, WE tv and IFC programming networks. Sources of cash for RNS include primarily cash flow from the operations of the businesses in RNS and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities. RNS principal uses of cash include: the debt service of RNS and the net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming entities including IFC Entertainment, Rainbows international programming services and the net costs of VOOM HD. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of RNS for the next 12 months including term loan repayments aggregating $50,000 will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and available borrowings under RNS credit fa cilities. RNS has an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the "RNS Credit Facility"), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility. The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012. The RNS Credit Facility allows RNS to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan. Further, the RNS Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000. On June 3, 2008, RNS entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement ("Incremental Revolver") whereby RNS received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000. The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver). The terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of the RNS Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at December 31, 2010. Borrowings under the RNS Credit Facility are direct obligations of RNS which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("RPH"), the direct parent of RNS, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries and all of the other assets of RNS and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). The term A loan requires quarterly repayments of $12,500 in 2011 and 2012, and $162,500 on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the maturity of the term A loan. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June 30, 2012. (101) Table of Contents The RNS Credit Facility contains various financial and other covenants. As defined in the RNS Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1. Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates. RNS was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its credit agreement as of December 31, 2010. In addition, RNS is also subject to covenants of the senior and senior subordinated notes it has issued, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement. Newsday LLC We currently expect that net funding and investment requirements for Newsday LLC for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities, interest income from the Cablevision senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC, capital contributions and intercompany advances. Newsday LLCs $650,000 senior secured credit facility is comprised of two components: a $525,000 10.50% fixed rate term loan facility and a $125,000 floating rate term loan facility. The senior secured credit facility matures on August 1, 2013 and, subject to certain exceptions, requires mandatory prepayments out of the proceeds of certain sales of property or assets, insurance proceeds and debt and equity issuances. No mandatory prepayments are required prior to July 29, 2011, and the amount of prepayments thereafter are limited to $105,000 in the aggregate prior to July 29, 2012 and $140,000 in the aggregate prior to the maturity date. Optional prepayments are also permitted, subject to specified prepayment premiums. The principal financial covenant for the senior secured credit facility is a minimum liquidity test of $25,000, which is tested bi annually on June 30 and December 31. The senior secured credit facility also contains other affirmative and negative covenants, subject to certain exceptions, including limitations on indebtedness (other than permitted senior indebtedness (as defined) not exceeding $50,000 and permitted subordinated indebtedness (as defined) to be used for investments not to exceed $100,000), investments (other than investments out of excess cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings and out of a $40,000 basket), and dividends and other restricted payments (other than in respect of management and guarantee fees and restricted payments out of exce ss cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings). Certain of the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under the Newsday LLC senior secured credit facility are similar to the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under its outstanding senior notes. Newsday LLC was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its credit agreement as of December 31, 2010. Borrowings by Newsday LLC under its senior secured credit facility are guaranteed by Newsday Holdings LLC, NMG Holdings, Inc. and CSC Holdings on a senior unsecured basis and secured by a lien on the assets of Newsday LLC, and the Cablevision senior notes receivable held by Newsday Holdings LLC. Bresnan Cable Credit Facility Debt We currently expect that net funding and investment requirements for Bresnan Cable for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and borrowings under its credit facility. (102) Table of Contents Bresnan Cable has a $840,000 senior secured credit facility which is comprised of two components: a $765,000 term loan facility and a $75,000 revolving credit facility (collectively, the "Bresnan Credit Agreement"). In connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, the full $765,000 amount of the term loan facility was drawn, net of an original issue discount of approximately $7,700. The revolving credit facility, which includes a $25,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $5,000 sublimit for swingline loans, was not drawn in connection with the transaction. Such revolving credit facility is expected to be available to provide for ongoing working capital requirements an d for other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. Borrowings under the Bresnan Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate, which at the option of Bresnan Cable may be either 2.0% over a floating base rate or 3.0% over an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a LIBOR floor of 1.50%. The Bresnan Credit Agreement requires Bresnan Cable to pay a commitment fee of 0.75% in respect of the average daily unused commitments under the revolving credit facility. Bresnan Cable is also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, as well as fronting fees, to banks that issue letters of credit pursuant to the Bresnan Credit Agreement. All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Holdings Sub (the direct parent of Bresnan Cable) and each of Bresnan Cables existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are not designated as unrestricted subsidiaries in accordance with the Bresnan Credit Agreement (the "Guarantors"). All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement, including the guarantees of those obligations, will be secured by certain assets of the Bresnan Cable and the Guarantors, including a pledge of the equity interests of Bresnan Cable. Bresnan Cable may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Bresnan Credit Agreement at any time after December 14, 2011, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (except for customary breakage costs with respect to Eurodollar loans, if applicable). On or prior to December 14, 2011, if Bresnan Cable makes a prepayment of term loans in connection with certain refinancing transactions, Bresnan Cable must pay a prepayment premium of 1% of the amount of term loans prepaid. With certain exceptions, Bresnan Cable is required to make mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances, including (i) a specified percentage of excess cash flow beginning in 2012 depending on its cash flow ratio, (ii) from the net cash proceeds of certain sales of assets (subject to reinvestment rights), (iii) from casualty insurance and or condemnation proceeds, and (iv) upon the incurrence of certain indebtedness. The Bresnan Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and also requires Bresnan Cable to comply with the following financial covenants: (i) a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 8.00:1 decreasing to 5.00:1 on and after March 31, 2014; (ii) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense of 2.00:1 increasing to 2.75:1 on and after March 31, 2014, and (iii) minimum liquidity of $25,000. In connection with the Bresnan Credit Agreement, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $20,542, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the credit agreement. Bresnan Cable Notes On December 14, 2010, in connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, BBHI Acquisition LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued $250,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due December 15, 2018 (the "Bresnan Notes"). The Bresnan Notes are guaranteed by all of Bresnan Cables (the successor entity to BBHI Acquisition LLC) existing subsidiaries and will be guaranteed by certain of Bresnan Cables future subsidiaries. At any time prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a specified "make whole" price plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. &# 160;Beginning on or after December 15, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 106% declining annually to 100% beginning on December 15, 2016. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $5,553, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes. (103) Table of Contents Rainbow Media Holdings At December 31, 2009, Rainbow Media Holdings, an unrestricted indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision had a $190,000 intercompany payable to Madison Square Garden in the form of a non interest bearing advance. On January 28, 2010, the intercompany advance was replaced with a promissory note having a principal amount of $190,000, an interest rate of 3.25% and a maturity date of June 30, 2010. In March 2010, the $190,000 of indebtedness was repaid, including $914 of interest accrued from January 28, 2010 through the date of repayment, using proceeds from the Restricted Group revolving credit facility. Monetization Contract Maturities The following monetization contracts of our Comcast common stock matured since January 1, 2010: Month of Maturity Shares covered under monetization contract April 2010 2,732,184 June 2010 2,668,875 August 2010 2,668,875 January 2011 2,668,875 We settled our obligations under the related collateralized indebtedness by delivering cash from the net proceeds of new monetization transactions on our Comcast common stock that will mature April, June and August 2012 and January 2013. During the next 12 months, monetization contracts covering 10,738,809 shares of Comcast common stock mature. The Company intends to either settle such transactions by delivering shares of the Comcast common stock and the related equity derivative contracts or by delivering cash from the net proceeds of new monetization transactions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a discussion of our monetization contracts. (104) Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments The Companys contractual obligations to third parties as of December 31, 2010, which consist primarily of our debt obligations and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table: Payments Due by Period Total Year 1 Years 2 3 Years 4 5 More than 5 years Other Off balance sheet arrangements: Purchase obligations(1) $ 4,679,793 $ 1,393,310 $ 1,713,728 $ 627,147 $ 945,608 $ Operating lease obligations(2) 548,040 85,877 167,244 150,975 143,944 Guarantees(3) 27,119 10,876 16,243 Letters of Credit(4) 58,723 1,450 56,923 350 5,313,675 1,491,513 1,954,138 778,122 1,089,902 Contractual obligations reflected on the balance sheet: Debt obligations(5) 12,883,956 694,606 2,467,304 2,601,779 7,120,267 Program rights obligations(6) 454,955 116,320 185,922 105,977 46,736 Capital lease obligations(7) 66,462 9,411 11,128 33,984 11,939 Taxes(8) 70,187 2,474 67,713 13,475,560 822,811 2,664,354 2,741,740 7,178,942 67,713 Total $ 18,789,235 $ 2,314,324 $ 4,618,492 $ 3,519,862 $ 8,268,844 $ 67,713 See discussion above regarding payment options the Company has on its monetization contracts. See Notes 10 and 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long term debt. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our operating leases. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our program rights obligations. (1) Purchase obligations primarily include contractual commitments with various programming vendors to provide video services to the Companys subscribers, minimum purchase obligations to purchase goods or services and contractual obligations under certain employment contracts. Future fees payable under contracts with programming vendors are based on numerous factors, including the number of subscribers receiving the programming. Amounts reflected above related to programming agreements are based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming as of December 2010 multiplied by the per subscriber rates or the stated annual fee, as applicable, contained in the executed agreements in effect as of December 31, 2010. (2) Operating lease obligations represent primarily future minimum payment commitments on various long term, noncancelable leases for office, production and storage space, and Clearview Cinemas, and rental space on utility poles used for the Companys Telecommunications Services Segment. (3) Includes outstanding guarantees primarily by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Companys holdings of shares of Comcast Corporation common stock. Does not include CSC Holdings guarantee of Newsday LLCs obligations under its $650,000 senior secured credit facility. (4) Consists primarily of letters of credit obtained by CSC Holdings in favor of insurance providers and certain governmental authorities for the Telecommunications Services segment. (5) Excludes interest payments and includes future payments due on the Companys (i) credit facility debt, (ii) senior notes and debentures, (iii) senior subordinated notes and debentures, and (iv) collateralized indebtedness. (6) Program rights obligations represent the future payments of liabilities recorded relating to programming for exhibition on the Companys networks. (7) Reflects the face amount of capital lease obligations, including related interest. (8) This amount represents tax liabilities, including accrued interest, relating to uncertain tax positions. DISH Network was issued a 20% interest in VOOM HD Holdings, the Companys subsidiary operating VOOM, and that 20% interest will not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in VOOM HD Holdings by the Company. On the fifth or eighth anniversary of the effective date of the investment agreement, the termination of the affiliation agreement by DISH Network, or other specified events, DISH Network has a put right to require a wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings to purchase all of its equity interests in VOOM HD Holdings at fair value. On the seventh or tenth anniversary of the effective date of the investment agreement, or the second anniversary date of the termination of the affiliation agreement by DISH Network, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings has a call right to purchase all of DISH Networks ownership in VOOM HD Holdings at fair value. The table above does not include any future payments that would be required upon the exercise of this put right, if any. See "Item 3. Legal Proceeding DISH Network Contract Dispute". (105) Table of Contents At any time after the thirteenth anniversary of the closing of the Newsday Transaction and on or prior to the date that is six months after such anniversary, Tribune Company will have the right to require CSC Holdings to purchase Tribune Companys entire interest in Newsday Holdings LLC at the fair value of the interest at that time (see Note 4 to the Companys consolidated financial statements). The table above does not include any future payments that would be required upon the exercise of this put right. Other Events Acquisition of Bresnan Cable On December 14, 2010, BBHI Holdings LLC ("Holdings Sub"), BBHI Acquisition LLC ("Acquisition Sub") and CSC Holdings, each of which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, consummated the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Holdings Sub, Acquisition Sub, CSC Holdings, Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC ("Bresnan Cable") and Providence Equity Bresnan Cable LLC dated June 13, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"). Acquisition Sub merged with and into Bresnan Cable, with Bresnan Cable being the surviving entity, and becoming a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings Sub and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings. The purchase price was $1,366,157 subject to final working capital and certain other adjustments. The acquisition was financed using an equity contribution by CSC Holdings of $395,000, which CSC Holdings borrowed under its revolving credit facility, and debt consisting of an undrawn $75,000 revolving credit facility, a $765,000 term loan facility and $250,000 8.0% senior notes due 2018. For income tax purposes, the acquisition was treated as an asset acquisition with a full step up in tax basis. MSG Distribution On February 9, 2010, Cablevision completed the MSG Distribution, which took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date. On January 12, 2010, the Company transferred to Madison Square Garden the Companys subsidiaries which owned, directly or indirectly, all of the partnership interests in Madison Square Garden, L.P. As a result of the MSG Distribution, on February 9, 2010, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reportin g and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the MSG Distribution date. Common Stock Repurchase In June 2010, Cablevisions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock. Under the repurchase program, shares of CNYG Class A common stock may be purchased from time to time in the open market. Size and timing of these purchases will be determined based on market conditions and other factors. Funding for the repurchase program will be met with cash on hand and or borrowings under CSC Holdings revolving credit facility which would be distributed to Cablevision. Through December 31, 2010, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 10,825,600 shares for a total cost of approximately $316,513, including commissions ($16,266 of unsettled purchases are reflected as a current liability at December 31, 2010). These acquired shares have been cla ssified as treasury stock in Cablevisions consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $183,595 of availability remaining under our stock repurchase authorization. (106) Table of Contents For the period from January 1 through February 15, 2011, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 4,728,300 shares for a total cost of approximately $164,103, including commissions. On February 15, 2011, Cablevisions Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock. Dividends The Board of Directors of Cablevision declared the following cash dividends to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock: Declaration Date Dividend per Share Record Date Payment Date February 24, 2010 $0.10 March 8, 2010 March 29, 2010 May 5, 2010 $0.125 May 17, 2010 June 7, 2010 August 4, 2010 $0.125 August 16, 2010 September 7, 2010 November 3, 2010 $0.125 November 15, 2010 December 6, 2010 February 25, 2009 $0.10 March 9, 2009 March 31, 2009 May 6, 2009 $0.10 May 18, 2009 June 9, 2009 July 29, 2009 $0.10 August 10, 2009 September 1, 2009 November 2, 2009 $0.10 November 13, 2009 December 4, 2009 August 15, 2008 $0.10 August 26, 2008 September 18, 2008 November 5, 2008 $0.10 November 17, 2008 December 9, 2008 Cablevision paid dividends aggregating $140,734, $123,499, and $64,854 in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, primarily from the proceeds of dividend payments to Cablevision from CSC Holdings. The CSC Holdings dividend payments to Cablevision were funded from cash on hand. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, up to approximately $7,461 will be paid when, and if, restrictions lapse on restricted shares outstanding. On February 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a cash dividend of $0.125 per share payable on March 21, 2011 to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock as of February 28, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, its sole shareholder, aggregating $556,272. The proceeds were used to fund: Cablevisions dividends paid in 2010; Cablevisions interest payments on certain of its senior notes; Cablevisions payments for the acquisition of treasury shares related to statutory minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of certain restricted shares; and the repurchase of CNYG Class A common stock under Cablevisions share repurchase program. During the year ended December 31, 2009, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, aggregating $790,082. The proceeds were used to fund: Cablevisions repurchase of a portion of Cablevisions April 2009 Notes pursuant to the tender offer completed in March 2009 ($196,269); Cablevisions repayment of the remaining outstanding balance of its April 2009 Notes upon their maturity ($303,731); Cablevisions dividends paid in 2009; Cablevisions interest payments on certain of its senior notes; and Cablevisions payments for the acquisition of treasury shares related to statutory minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of certain restricted shares. In 2008, CSC Holdings made distributions of $52,076 to Cablevision, which it used to fund dividend payments. In addition, in 2008, CSC Holdings made advances to Cablevision aggregating $144,559. (107) Table of Contents Proposed Distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings On December 16, 2010, the Company announced that Cablevisions Board of Directors authorized Cablevisions management to move forward with the leveraged spin off of Rainbow Media Holdings to Cablevisions stockholders (the "Rainbow Distribution"). The Rainbow Distribution would be structured as a tax free pro rata distribution to stockholders and is expected to be completed by mid year 2011, subject to necessary approvals. As part of the Rainbow Distribution, a refinancing of what will be the new Rainbow Media Holdings would create new debt, a portion of which would be used to repay all outstanding RNS debt and approximately $1,250,000 of Cablevision and or CSC Holdings debt. It is anticipated that the Rainbow Distribution would be in the form of a pro rata distribution to all stockholders of Cablevisio n, with holders of CNYG Class A common stock receiving Class A shares in Rainbow Media Holdings and holders of CNYG Class B common stock receiving Class B shares in Rainbow Media Holdings. Both Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings would continue to be controlled by the Dolan family through their ownership of Class B shares. The new Rainbow Media Holdings assets will include the Rainbow segment, which consists of: National programming networks: primarily AMC, WE tv, IFC, and Sundance Channel; IFC Entertainment, an independent film business that consists of multiple brands including IFC Films, IFC Productions and the IFC Center; and Rainbow Network Communications, a full service network programming origination and distribution company, delivering programming to the cable, satellite and broadcast industries. Businesses that will remain a part of Cablevision include the Telecommunications Services segment, Newsday and other businesses included in the Other segment. Completion of the Rainbow Distribution is subject to a number of external conditions, including receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the finalization of the terms and conditions of the required financing, as well as final approval by Cablevisions Board of Directors. In late November 2010, the Company submitted a private letter ruling request to the IRS. Aircraft Arrangements On February 16, 2011, a subsidiary of the Company entered into an Aircraft Dry Lease Agreement with Sterling Aviation LLC ("Sterling"), an entity owned by members of the Dolan family, pursuant to which Sterling has agreed to make a G IV aircraft available for use by the Company on a non exclusive basis. The cost to the Company is equal to certain operating costs of the aircraft while in use by the Company and an amount equal to twice the actual fuel costs. The new agreement replaces the existing Time Sharing Agreement between the Company and another entity controlled by the Dolan family covering the same aircraft and is intended to replicate the economics of that agreement. Managing our Interest Rate and Equity Price Risk Interest Rate Risk To manage interest rate risk, we have entered into various interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates. Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates. We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We monitor the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and we only enter into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade. We diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution. Interest rate risk is primarily a result of exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads. All interest rate swap contracts are carried at their fair values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in our consolidated statements of operations. (108) Table of Contents Equity Price Risk We have entered into derivative contracts to hedge our equity price risk and monetize the value of our shares of common stock of Comcast Corporation. These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price. If any one of these contracts is terminated prior to its scheduled maturity date due to the occurrence of an event specified in the contract, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. As of December 31, 2010, we did not have an early termination shortfall relating to any of t hese contracts. The underlying stock and the equity collars are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for information on how we participate in changes in the market price of the stocks underlying these derivative contracts. All of our monetization transactions are obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries that are not part of the Restricted Group; however, CSC Holdings provides guarantees of the subsidiaries ongoing contract payment expense obligations and potential payments that could be due as a result of an early termination event (as defined in the agreements). The guarantee exposure approximates the net sum of the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar. All of our equity derivative contracts are carried at their current fair value on our consolidated balance sheets with changes in value reflected in our consolidated statements of operations, and all of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2010 28, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts. ASU No. 2010 28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. ASU No. 2010 28 will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. Early adoption is not permitted. The adoption of ASU No. 2010 28 will have no impact on our financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. ASU No. 2010 06 outlines certain new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurement as set forth in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820 10. ASU No. 2010 06 amends ASC Topic 820 10 to now require that (a) a reporting entity disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs, a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements. In addition, ASU No. 2010 06 clarifies existing disclosures on (a) how a reporting entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities, and (b) how a reporting entity should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. ASU No. 2010 06 became effective in 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. These disclosures will be effective in the first quarter of 2011. We will provide the additional required disclosures pursuant to the guidance under ASU No. 2010 06 when applicable. (109) Table of Contents In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which provides amendments that (a) update the criteria for separating consideration in multiple deliverable arrangements, (b) establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, and (c) replace the term "fair value" in the revenue allocation guidance with the term "selling price" to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity specific assumptions. ASU No. 2009 13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis. ASU No. 2009 13 requires a vendor to significantly expand the disclosures related to multiple deliverable revenue arrangements with the objective to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. ASU No. 2009 13 is required to be adopted on a prospective basis to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2011. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk All dollar amounts, except per subscriber, per unit and per share data, included in the following discussion under this Item 7A are presented in thousands. Equity Price Risk The Company is exposed to market risks from changes in certain equity security prices. Our exposure to changes in equity security prices stems primarily from the shares of Comcast Corporation common stock held by us. We have entered into equity derivative contracts consisting of a collateralized loan and an equity collar to hedge our equity price risk and to monetize the value of these securities. These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price. The contracts actual hedge prices per share vary depending on average stock prices in effect at the time the contracts were executed. The contracts act ual cap prices vary depending on the maturity and terms of each contract, among other factors. If any one of these contracts is terminated prior to its scheduled maturity date due to the occurrence of an event specified in the contract, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date. As of December 31, 2010, we did not have an early termination shortfall relating to any of these contracts. The underlying stock and the equity collars are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value. The carrying value of our collateralized indebtedness amounted to $352,606 at December 31, 2010. At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of Comcast common stock, with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value and the carrying value of our holdings of Comcast common stock aggregated $471,864. Assuming a 10% change in price, the potential change in the fair value of these investments would be approximately $47,186. As of December 31, 2010, the net fair value and the carrying value of the equity collar component of the equity derivative contracts entered into to partially hedge the equity price risk of our holdings of Comcast common stock aggregated $59,300, a net payable position. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a net loss on our outstanding equity derivative contracts of $72,044 and recorded unrealized and realized gains of $109,751 on our holdings of Comcast common stock that we held during the period. (110) Table of Contents Fair Value of Equity Derivative Contracts Fair value as of December 31, 2009, net receivable position $ 35,970 Change in fair value, net (72,044 ) Settlement of contracts (23,226 ) Fair value as of December 31, 2010, net payable position $ (59,300 ) The maturity, number of shares deliverable at the relevant maturity, hedge price per share, and the lowest and highest cap prices received for each security monetized via an equity derivative prepaid forward contract are summarized in the following table: # of Shares Hedge Price Cap Price(b) Security Deliverable Maturity per Share(a) Low High Comcast 10,738,809 2011 $ 13.16 $17.45 $ 15.79 $ 22.68 8,069,934 2012 $ 17.57 $18.85 $ 21.09 $ 22.62 2,668,875 (c) 2013 $ 22.11 $ 26.53 $ 26.53 (a) Represents the price below which we are provided with downside protection and above which we retain upside appreciation. Also represents the price used in determining the cash proceeds payable to us at inception of the contracts. (b) Represents the price up to which we receive the benefit of stock price appreciation. (c) Represents an outstanding equity derivative contract at December 31, 2010 that matured and was settled on January 6, 2011 from the proceeds of a new monetization contract covering an equivalent number of shares. Fair Value of Debt: Based on the level of interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010, the fair value of our fixed rate debt of $7,658,866 was more than its carrying value of $7,069,420 by $589,446. The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated based on reference to quoted market prices for these or comparable securities. Our floating rate borrowings bear interest in reference to current LIBOR based market rates and thus their carrying values approximate fair value. The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010 would increase the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt by $295,871 to $7,954,737. This estimate is based on the assumption of an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across all maturities. Interest Rate Swap Contracts: Our exposure to interest rate movements results from our use of floating and fixed rate debt to fund the approximately $3 billion special dividend paid in 2006, our working capital, capital expenditures, and other operational and investment requirements. To manage interest rate risk, from time to time we have entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates and or effectively convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to permit the Company to realize lower interest expense in a declining interes t rate environment. We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and we only enter into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade. We diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution. All such contracts are carried at their fair values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in fair value reflected in our consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings was party to several interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $2,600,000 that effectively fixed borrowing rates on a portion of the Companys floating rate debt. Interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $1,100,000 matured in March 2010. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding interest rate swap contracts had a fair value and carrying value of $167,278 a net liability position, as reflected under derivative contracts in our consolidated balance sheet. Assuming an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across the yield curve, a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010 would increase our liability under these derivative contracts by approximately $15,538 to a liability of $182,816. (111) Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a net loss on interest swap contracts of $85,013, as detailed in the table below: Fair Value of Interest Rate Swap Contracts Fair value as of December 31, 2009, a net liability position $ (211,462 ) Cash payments, net 129,197 Change in fair value, net (85,013 ) Fair value as of December 31, 2010, a net liability position $ (167,278 ) 
 
