ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy or anticipates or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors in Risk Factors. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, or our failure to achieve the expected competitive advantages of operating as a REIT; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in the supply of timber products; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance. Accordingly, actual results may not conform to the forward looking statements contained in this Report. Overview Merger with The Timber Company. On October 6, 2001, the six entities that comprised The Timber Company, formerly a separate operating group of Georgia Pacific Corporation (Georgia Pacific), merged with and into Plum Creek, with Plum Creek as the surviving company. As a part of the merger, the shareholders of Georgia Pacific Corporation Timber Group Common Stock (Timber Company Stock) received 1.37 shares of Plum Creeks common stock for each share of The Timber Company stock, or approximately 112.7 million shares. The merger is being accounted for as a reverse acquisition, with The Timber Company being treated as the acquirer for accounting and financial reporting purposes. As a consequence, the historical financial statements of The Timber Company became the financial statements of Plum Creek effective as of the consummation of the merger. Therefore, the statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects the performance of The Timber Company until the date of the merger and that of the merged company for the remainder of 2001. The statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2000 and January 1, 2000 reflect only the operating results of The Timber Company. See Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to the merger with Plum Creek, The Timber Company had only one reportable segment. Subsequent to the merger, Plum Creek has five reportable segments. The Timber Companys historical segment information has been retroactively restated back to the beginning of 1999 to reflect these new segments. Furthermore, the period to period comparison of the results of operations for 2001 compared to 2000 and 2000 compared to 1999 are based on the new segments and reflect the operating results of The Timber Company through the merger date (October 6, 2001) and the results of the combined company subsequent to the merger date. See Note 14 of the Notes to Financial Statements for segment and geographical area information. Additionally, in connection with the merger, Plum Creek replaced approximately $650 million of Georgia Pacific debt attributed to The Timber Company with third party debt, consisting of $500 million of fixed rate 18 Table of Contents debt and $150 million of variable rate debt. Also in connection with the merger, Plum Creek assumed approximately 3.8 million outstanding stock options (after adjusting for the exchange ratio) with respect to Timber Company Stock at exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.34 (after adjusting for the exchange ratio). See Notes 6 and 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Commencing July 1, 1999, Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 through 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. As a consequence of The Timber Company merging into a REIT, a one time tax benefit of approximately $216 million was recorded to reflect the elimination of a deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences primarily related to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period. Additionally, in connection with the merger, Plum Creek inherited the earnings and profits of The Timber Company. As a REIT, Plum Creek was required to distribute these earnings and profits prior to January 31, 2002. As a result, our fourth quarter dividend of $0.57 per share was accelerated and paid on December 28, 2001. The dividend normally would have been paid in February 2002. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Non recurring Items. During 2001 we had the following non recurring items which had an impact on our results of operations: 1. Income Tax Benefit. As a result of the entities comprising The Timber Company, each a taxable corporation, merging into Plum Creek, a REIT, which is generally not subject to federal or state income tax, a one time tax benefit of $216 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The benefit relates primarily to the elimination of a deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences primarily related to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. 2. Severance. In connection with the October 6, 2001 merger, the employment of several executives and key employees of The Timber Company terminated. Terminated employees were paid a severance and two terminated executives of The Timber Company were awarded additional pension benefits. An expense of $6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 for these severance and pension benefits. Accounting Method Change. In the fourth quarter of 2001, the company changed its accounting policy to capitalize certain timber reforestation costs that were previously expensed. The cumulative effect of this policy change is not reflected in the beginning balance of Timber and Timberlands because information is not available to compute the cumulative effect of the change over the prior harvest cycle of approximately 30 years. The new capitalization policy was applied retroactively as of January 1, 2001. Implementation of the new accounting policy increased the Northern Resources Segments 2001 operating income by $2 million and the Southern Resources Segments 2001 operating income by $16 million. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements, Timber and Timberlands. Off Balance Sheet Debt and Other Arrangements. The consolidated financial statements of the company reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has no relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Consequently, the company has no off balance sheet debt. Furthermore, except for a financing in connection with certain installment notes receivable which were transferred to Georgia Pacific prior to the October 6, 2001 merger, the company is not a party to any derivative transactions. Finally, the company does not have any transactions with related parties or affiliates other than those described in Note 12 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 19 Table of Contents accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements require management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgements and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition. Plum Creek (The Timber Company prior to the October 6, 2001 merger) historically recognized revenue from timber sales under three different methods, depending upon the terms of the sale. The methods were: (1) delivered log sales, (2) cutting contracts and (3) timber deeds. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller cuts the tree and delivers it to the buyer. Risk of loss and title to the tree passes to the buyer when the log is delivered to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered and includes the cost of logging and hauling. Cutting contacts are agreements where the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each of the different types of trees over the terms of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases an advance is received in connection with cutting contracts, and in other cases the buyer agrees to only cut certain trees on a tract of land. Under cutting contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Title and risk of loss pass to the buyer as the trees are cut. Revenue is recognized when the trees are cut. Total revenue recognized under a cutting contract is a function of the total volume of wood removed times the agreed upon per unit price for each of the various types of trees on a tract of land. Timber deeds are agreements where the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land over the terms of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). However, unlike a cutting contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. Subsequent to the October 6, 2001 merger, as a result of certain REIT requirements, we have replaced timber deed agreements with lump sum sale agreements. Under a lump sum sale, the parties agree to a lump sum price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. However, unlike timber deeds, title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is cut. Therefore, revenue is recognized each month based on the timber harvested compared to total timber available to be harvested on a tract of land over the terms of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on timber cruise information. Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the trees are cut, an estimate of how much revenue to recognize each month is made based on how much volume has been removed compared to the total volume available for harvest on a tract of land according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer regarding how much volume has been removed. Inevitably, the total volume harvested from a tract of land will be different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume removed is greater than the cruised volume, we will stop recognizing revenue on this contract once the total revenue recognized is equal to total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruised volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruised volume, an 20 Table of Contents adjustment will be recorded in the month in which the buyer has completed its harvesting on a tract of land. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the lump sum contract price and the total revenue recognized under this contract to date. Management does not expect to have any material adjustments to revenue recognized under lump sum sales agreements. Management expects that actual volumes harvested under lump sum contracts will not be materially different than the estimated cruised volumes. Furthermore, management estimates that the likelihood of actual volume harvested exceeding the cruised volume is approximately equal to the likelihood of actual volume harvested being less than the cruised volume. However, we have limited experience with lump sum contracts and we may need, therefore, to refine our estimation process in future periods. While the timing of when revenue is recognized under a timber deed and a lump sum contract is materially different, this change is not expected to have a material impact on the year to year comparison of our results of operations. However, our quarter to quarter comparison of our results of operations is expected to be materially impacted. The majority of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, the majority of our timber sales are either cutting contracts or lump sum sales. Under both cutting contracts and lump sum sales, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs. Therefore, operating profit percentages are significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. Real Estate Sales. As a major landowner, we estimate that 5% of the companys timberlands may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes rather than for long term commercial timber management. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Furthermore, from time to time we dispose of large non strategic timberland holdings, which may result in material gains and losses from real estate sales. As a result, our reported operating income and net income may be materially impacted by the timing of our real estate sales. Historically, our Real Estate Segment has reported significant operating profit percentages (ranging from 70% to 90% of revenues), and this trend is expected to continue in the future. The high operating profit percentages are primarily because a significant portion of our timberlands was acquired many years ago. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the annual appreciation in our timberlands cannot be reflected in our earnings until the year in which the properties are sold. Furthermore, in connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. This was the case in our October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company. Since the merger is being accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the timberlands of Plum Creek were recorded at their fair value. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflect greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, within each region, except for properties which we were able to identify specifically, we allocated this higher value proportionately among all the acres acquired. In general, specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. Management believes that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and it does not believe that it has the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of our properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. 21 Table of Contents Depletion. Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South and as long as 90 years in the Rockies. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. Significant estimates and judgements are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. The company has invested in technology that enables it to predict its current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised annually, management does not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. Deferred Income Taxes. Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code commencing July 1, 1999. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level tax if it satisfies certain requirements. On October 6, 2001, The Timber Company, consisting of a group of corporate entities, merged with and into Plum Creek. As a consequence of the merger of a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, the deferred tax liabilities of The Timber Company are eliminated except for any expected transactions that would be subject to built in gains tax. Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) to the extent it disposes of certain property of The Timber Company that it acquired in the merger during a ten year period following the merger. The built in gains tax only applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, a one time tax benefit of approximately $216 million was recorded by the company in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of the merger of The Timber Company into Plum Creek. The benefit of approximately $216 million represents the elimination of a deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences primarily related to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period following the merger. Management estimated that approximately 5% of The Timber Companys timberlands will be sold in a taxable transaction over the next ten years. As a result, approximately $11 million of deferred taxes related to timberlands were not eliminated during the fourth quarter of 2001. It is likely that actual timberland sales over the ten year built in gain period will be greater than, or less than, 5%. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, 5%. Long Term Incentive Plans. Plum Creek has a Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock, dividend equivalents and value management awards. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Value management awards provide incentive compensation to participants over a three year period that is contingent upon performance measured against the performance of a peer group of forest products companies. Value management awards are earned in whole or in part based on a sliding scale. No value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is below the 50th percentile of the peer group. The full value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is above the 75th percentile. 22 Table of Contents Plum Creek recognizes compensation expense for value management awards based on the expected value of the award upon vesting and accrues the expense over the vesting period. The actual expense cannot be determined until the end of the three year performance period. Furthermore, since the amount of the award, if any, is based on Plum Creeks relative performance compared to that of its peer group, it is possible to have significant changes to the estimated award value during the performance period. Compensation expense related to the value management awards is adjusted in the quarter in which there has been a material change in the expected vested value of the awards. Therefore, it is possible that an adjustment to the value management award expense may be material to the result of operations for the quarter and the year in which the estimated vested benefit is revised. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results [Note: The market trends described below impacted both the businesses of The Timber Company and Plum Creek during 2001.] Current Market Conditions Northern Resources Segment. Prices for sawtimber logs in our Northern Resources Segment decreased in 2001 by approximately 10% from 2000 levels. Declining prices for softwood sawtimber were partially offset by a slight improvement in prices for hardwood sawtimber. Softwood sawtimber prices, which began to decline in late 2000, continued to weaken through 2001. The price decline was primarily due to an ample supply of logs, reduced exports of log and lumber from the U.S. to foreign countries, principally Japan, and weak lumber prices as a result of the slowing U.S. economy. Hardwood sawtimber markets improved slightly, despite weakness in the economy, due to a tight supply of quality sawlogs. Prices for pulpwood logs in our Northern Resource Segment declined by approximately 5% from 2000 levels. Pulpwood prices weakened due to the worldwide overcapacity of mills that make paper products and weak pulp and paper prices. Furthermore, as a result of the continued strong U.S. dollar, foreign imports of paper products into the U.S. have increased while exports of U.S. products have decreased. Southern Resources Segment. Prices for sawtimber logs in our Southern Resources Segment decreased in 2001 by approximately 15% from 2000 levels. Softwood sawtimber prices, which began to soften in the second half of 2000, continued to weaken through 2001. The price decline was primarily due to weak commodity prices and production curtailments by lumber and plywood mills. Lumber prices declined due to the weak U.S. economy and overcapacity in the North American lumber industry. In addition, production of treated southern yellow pine (SYP) lumber, which consumed approximately 36% of lumber output in 2000, declined 22% in 2001, removing approximately 8% of the demand for SYP lumber. SYP Plywood mills reduced production and experienced price erosion in 2001 due to increasing competition from Oriented Strand Board (OSB) producers as well as general weakness in the economy. Prices for pulpwood logs in our Southern Resources Segment decreased in 2001 by approximately 10% from 2000 levels. Softwood pulpwood prices declined due to reduced demand from domestic and foreign pulp and paper manufacturers, lower profitability of pulpwood log converters, and an increase in the available supply of logs. Demand for softwood pulpwood declined due to pulp and paper mill closures and curtailments as a result of weak product markets. The profitability of pulpwood converters, which include pulp and paper manufacturers, chip exporters, and OSB producers, declined as the global market for pulp softened and OSB production capacity outpaced growth in demand. The supply of softwood pulpwood logs increased due to continued dry weather for much of the year, as well as a temporary influx of plantation thinning volume from private landowners associated with a government subsidy program aimed at soil conservation. Hardwood pulpwood prices increased year over year, partially offsetting the price decline in softwood pulpwood prices. Manufactured Products Segment. Composite indices for commodity lumber in 2001 were down 3% from 2000 levels, primarily due to continued weakness in the U.S. economy during 2001, and persistent excess lumber 23 Table of Contents capacity in North America. Lumber demand declined during 2001, despite the 2% increase in housing starts, primarily due to the 4% decline in industrial production. North American lumber capacity continues to substantially exceed lumber demand due to the new capacity installed during the prior decade. In addition, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and increased offshore lumber capacity weakened the trade balance for the U.S. lumber industry. The preliminary findings by the International Trade Commission that resulted in tariffs on Canadian lumber imported into the U.S. provided some support to lumber prices for much of 2001, effectively stemming further price deterioration. Composite prices for commodity plywood in 2001 declined 2% from 2000 levels due to general weakness in the U.S. economy, particularly in the industrial sector, and continued increases in competition from lower cost OSB, which constrained plywood prices and displaced commodity plywood used in housing applications. Composite prices for Medium Density Fiberboard (MDF) in 2001 remained flat compared to 2000 levels due to continued world wide MDF overcapacity and flat domestic consumption related to the weak U.S. economy and the strong U.S. dollar. The strong U.S. dollar impacted MDF markets by making foreign producers more competitive with U.S. producers in domestic and overseas markets, and by encouraging furniture manufacturers who utilize MDF to source products and manufacturing in overseas locations and to target the U.S. consumer. Harvest Plans We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a continuous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 105,000 to 770,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, a forests progression from an unmanaged to a managed forest, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Active forest management involves the conversion of a forest from an unmanaged to a managed state. An unmanaged forest is made up largely of mature and over mature stands of timber which are growing slowly, both in terms of volume and value. In a managed forest, there exists a range of age classes, from recently planted stands to economically mature stands. The conversion of a forest from an unmanaged to a managed state can take from one to two forest generations, or rotations. Toward the end of the initial conversion process, a decline in the inventory volume is normal as the harvest of mature and over mature stands ends, and as the younger, faster growing stands have yet to reach final harvest age. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 2.5 million tons during 2001 and 1.4 million tons in 2000, a 78% increase, due to the October 6, 2001 merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company. Had the merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company occurred prior to 2001, estimated harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment would have approximated 5.3 million tons. Harvest levels in 2002 are expected to increase 6% over the estimated combined harvest levels of 5.3 million tons for 2001, as softwood plantations in the Pacific Northwest reach maturity and harvests remain level in the Northeast. In 2003 and 2004, we expect harvest levels to remain relatively constant at 2002 levels. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 11.4 million tons during 2001 and 10.3 million tons in 2000, an 11% increase, due to the October 6, 2001 merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company. Had the merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company occurred prior to 2001, estimated harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment would have approximated 13.0 million tons. Harvest levels in 2002 are expected to be comparable with the estimated combined harvest levels of 13.0 million tons for 2001. In 2003 and 2004, we expect harvest levels to remain relatively constant at 2002 levels. Beyond 2004, our aggregate harvest levels will gradually increase as previously established plantations mature and become available for harvest. Actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of real estate sales, the availability of legal 24 Table of Contents access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors that may be outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs and lumber in order to minimize the variance to planned harvest levels. U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement. The trade dispute between the United States and Canada continues to be a major source of uncertainty for U.S. lumber markets. On March 31, 2001, the five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada expired. The agreement was intended to limit the volume of lumber that was exported to the U.S. through the assessment of a tariff on annual lumber exports in excess of certain levels from the four major lumber producing Canadian provinces. Prior to this five year agreement, Canadian lumber producers were aggressively increasing their penetration into the U.S. market as a result of their lower wood fiber costs and favorable exchange rates. Soon following expiration of the trade agreement, U.S. industry coalitions submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. It was reported that on March 22, 2002, the Commerce Department rendered its determination in favor of the industry coalitions and issued a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7%. This rate represents the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters. It was also reported that the duties issued by the Commerce Department may not be imposed until the International Trade Commission renders its final injury determination, which is expected in May 2002. However, there is strong indication that the Canadian government will appeal any adverse final decision to the World Trade Organization. That appeal process would likely extend beyond 2002. Because both the countervailing and the anti dumping duties were preliminary decisions, Canadian exporters have been able to post bonds securing their obligation to pay the duties. Therefore, the duties generally did not produce the effect of significantly limiting Canadian lumber imports during much of 2001. At the same time, Canadian lumber imports during 2001 did not increase dramatically from import levels prior to the expiration of the trade agreement. If the final decision by the International Trade Commission were to eliminate or significantly lower current import tariffs on Canadian lumber before an agreement could be reached between the two countries, or if an appeal to the World Trade Organization were determined adversely to U.S. interests, then an increase in the supply of lumber to U.S. markets from Canadian sources would likely result. Other factors remaining unchanged, such an increase would increase downward pressure on lumber and log prices. Comparability of Financial Statement Periods. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue the acquisition of additional timberlands to increase our inventories of timber. On October 6, 2001, we completed our merger with The Timber Company, which was accounted for as a reverse acquisition. As a result, our ownership increased from approximately 3.2 million acres to approximately 7.8 million acres. We may also sell timberlands and facilities, from time to time, if attractive opportunities arise. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table compares operating income by segment for the years ended: Operating Income by Segment (In Millions) December 31, 2001 December 30, 2000 January 1, 2000 Northern Resources $ 30 $ 27 $ 59 Southern Resources 187 198 265 Real Estate 59 85 408 Manufactured Products 1 Other 8 8 6 Total Segment Operating Income 285 318 738 Other Costs & Eliminations (35 ) (15 ) (15 ) Operating Income $ 250 $ 303 $ 723 2001 Compared to 2000 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $25 million, or 32%, to $104 million in 2001. Excluding revenues associated with the October 6, 2001 merger with Plum Creek, revenues decreased by $8 million, or 10%, to $71 million. This decrease of $8 million was primarily due to lower softwood sawlog prices. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 15% primarily due to weak lumber and plywood prices and an abundant supply of logs. Product prices decreased primarily due to the slowing U.S. economy and excess lumber and plywood capacity. There was an abundant supply of logs primarily due to numerous lumber and plywood mill closures as a result of weak product prices. Excluding the impact of the October 6, 2001 merger, Northern Resources Segment operating income was 31% of its revenues for 2001 and 35% for 2000. This decline was primarily due to lower softwood sawlog prices. Northern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $22 million, or 42%, to $74 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses associated with the October 6, 2001 merger, costs and expenses decreased by $3 million, or 6%, to $49 million. This decrease of $3 million was primarily due to the change in accounting method for silviculture costs. Beginning in 2001, silviculture costs were capitalized while they were expensed in 2000. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 5%, to $319 million in 2001. Excluding revenues associated with the October 6, 2001 merger, revenues were stable at $303 million for both 2001 and 2000. However, despite stable revenues, revenues decreased by $38 million due to lower log prices, offset in part by higher revenues of $18 million as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales and $15 million due to higher harvest levels. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 14% primarily due to weak lumber and plywood prices and an abundant supply of logs. Product prices decreased primarily due to the slowing U.S. economy and excess lumber and plywood capacity. There was an abundant supply of logs primarily due to numerous lumber and plywood mill closures as a result of weak product prices. Revenues increased by $18 million due to a greater percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs whereas the buyer incurs these costs when standing timber is sold. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. Harvest levels increased by 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. See Harvest Plans section under this Item for managements expectation of 2002s harvest levels. Excluding the impact of the October 6, 2001 merger, Southern Resources Segment operating income was 60% of its revenues for 2001 and 65% for 2000. This decline was primarily due to lower softwood sawlog prices. 26 Table of Contents Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $27 million, or 26%, to $132 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses associated with the October 6, 2001 merger, costs and expenses increased by $18 million, or 17%, to $123 million. This increase of $18 million was primarily due to an increase in log and haul costs and higher depletion expense, offset in part by lower operating expenses. Log and haul costs increased by $18 million primarily due to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Depletion expense increased by $12 million primarily due to a refinement in the amount of future silviculture costs that are expected to be incurred to generate expected growth rates. Operating expenses decreased by $11 million primarily due to the change in accounting method for silviculture costs. Beginning in 2001, silviculture costs were capitalized while they were expensed in 2000. Real Estate Segment. Revenues decreased by $23 million, or 22%, to $80 million in 2001. Excluding revenues associated with the October 6, 2001 merger, revenues decreased by $29 million, or 28%, to $74 million. This decrease of $29 million is primarily due to the timing of real estate sales. As a major landowner, approximately 5% of the companys timberlands may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes rather than for long term commercial timber management. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, the companys expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Excluding the impact of the October 6, 2001 merger, Real Estate Segment operating income was 80% of its revenues for 2001 and 83% for 2000. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $3 million, or 17%, to $21 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses associated with the October 6, 2001 merger, costs and expenses decreased by $3 million, or 17%, to $15 million. Manufactured Products Segment. Prior to the October 6, 2001 merger, the financial statements represent those of The Timber Company which did not have any manufacturing operations. For the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001 Manufactured Products Segment revenues were $86 million, expenses were $85 million and operating income was $1 million. Other Segment. Revenues increased by $1 million, or 13%, to $9 million in 2001. Expenses were $1 million during 2001 but were less than $1 million during 2000. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $35 million in 2001, compared to a decrease of $15 million in 2000. This change of $20 million was primarily due to $9 million of intercompany profit elimination, $6 million of merger related severance costs and higher corporate expenses due to the increase in size of the company. At December 31, 2001, the deferred profit on intercompany log sales was $9 million. Profit on intercompany log sales is deferred until the lumber and plywood manufacturing facilities convert existing log inventories into finished products and sell them to third parties. Prior to the October 6, 2001 merger, The Timber Company did not have any deferred profit on log sales. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $10 million, or 23%, to $54 million for 2001. This increase was primarily due to the $837 million of Plum Creeks debt that was acquired in connection with the October 6, 2001 merger. 2000 Compared to 1999 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $59 million, or 43%, to $79 million in 2000. Excluding revenues associated with The Timber Companys operations of its 440,000 acres of timberlands in Maine, its 390,000 acres of timberlands in Canada and its 194,000 acres of timberlands in California, all of which were sold during 1999, revenues increased by $6 million, or 8%, to $79 million. Excluding the impact of the operating income associated with the Maine, Canada and California timberlands that were sold during 1999, Northern Resources Segment operating income was 35% of its revenues for 2000 and 27 Table of Contents 36% for 1999. Northern Resources Segment costs and expenses decreased by $27 million, or 34%, to $52 million in 2000. Excluding costs and expenses associated with The Timber Companys operations of its 440,000 acres of timberlands in Maine, its 390,000 acres of timberlands in Canada and its 194,000 acres of timberlands in California, all of which were sold during 1999, costs and expenses increased by $6 million, or 13%, to $52 million. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $69 million, or 19%, to $303 million in 2000. This decrease of $69 million was primarily due to a 21% decline in harvest volume and a 3% decline in log prices, offset in part by a higher percentage of delivered log sales. The decline in harvest volume was due to the near completion of the accelerated conversion process and reduced purchases from Georgia Pacific. During the early to mid 1990s, The Timber Company increased its harvest levels in order to accelerate the conversion of its mature natural stands to more productive, faster growing plantations. By 2000, this conversion process was nearly completed, and as a result, harvest levels were reduced. Additionally, during 2000 Georgia Pacific elected to reduce its timber purchases from The Timber Company due to weak lumber and plywood prices. Revenues increased by $8 million due to a greater percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs whereas the buyer incurs these costs when standing timber is sold. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 65% of its revenues for 2000 and 72% for 1999. This decline was primarily due to lower log prices and higher operating expenses. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses decreased by $2 million, or 2%, to $105 million in 2000. This decrease of $2 million was primarily due to lower depletion expense as a result of reduced harvest levels, offset in part by higher log and haul costs and higher operating expenses. Log and haul costs increased by $8 million primarily due to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Operating costs increased by $4 million primarily due to higher silviculture expenses as a result of increased fertilization costs for 3 to 5 year old tree stands due to accelerated harvest levels in the early to mid 1990s. Prior to 2001, The Timber Company expensed silviculture costs. Real Estate Segment. Revenues decreased by $409 million, or 80%, to $103 million in 2000. Excluding revenues associated with the 1999 sale of 440,000 acres of timberlands in Maine, 390,000 acres of timberlands in Canada and its 194,000 acres of timberlands in California, revenues increased by $33 million, or 47%, to $103 million. This increase of $33 million is primarily due to the timing of real estate sales. As a major landowner, approximately 5% of the companys timberlands may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes rather than for long term commercial timber management. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, the companys expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Excluding the impact of the 1999 bulk timberland sales in Maine, Canada and California, Real Estate Segment operating income was 83% of its revenues for 2000 and 80% for 1999. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $86 million, or 83%, to $18 million in 2000. Excluding costs and expenses associated with the 1999 bulk timberland sales in Maine, Canada and California, costs and expenses increased by $1 million, or 6%, to $18 million. Other Segment. Revenues increased by $2 million, or 33%, to $8 million in 2000. Expenses were less than $1 million during both 2000 and 1999. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead) decreased operating income by $15 million in both 2000 and 1999. Interest Expense. Net interest expense decreased by $25 million, or 36%, to $44 million for 2000. This decrease was primarily due to interest income on the $397 million installment note receivable from the sale of the California timberlands in late 1999. 28 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Liquidity Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $223 million in 2001, $593 million in 2000 and $316 million in 1999. Excluding proceeds of $342 million from the monetization in 2000 of the installment note receivable related to the 1999 sale of 390,000 acres of timberlands in California, net cash provided by operating activity decreased by $28 million, or 11%, to $223 million in 2001, compared to $251 million in 2000. The decrease of $28 million is primarily due to lower higher and better use real estate sales (sales were $80 million during 2001 compared to $103 million in 2000). Net cash provided by operating activity increased by $277 million, or 88%, to $593 million for 2000 compared to $316 million for 1999. Excluding from 2000 the proceeds of $342 million from the monetization of the installment note receivable related to the sale of 390,000 acres of timberlands in California, and excluding from 1999 the proceeds of $92 million from the sale of 440,000 acres of timberlands in Maine and 390,000 acres of timberlands in Canada, net cash provided by operating activity increased by $27 million, or 12%, to $251 million in 2000, compared to $224 million in 1999. The increase of $27 million is primarily due to greater higher and better use real estate sales (sales were $103 million during 2000 compared to $70 million during 1999). On October 6, 2001, we consummated the merger of The Timber Company and Plum Creek. In connection with the merger Plum Creek issued approximately 112.7 million shares and assumed 3.8 million stock options, and replaced the approximate $650 million of Georgia Pacific debt that was allocated to The Timber Company with third party debt. The $650 million of debt was replaced with $500 million of fixed rate debt and $150 million of variable rate debt. The terms of our new debt and line of credit established in connection with the merger are as follows: Fixed Rate Debt: Principal Amount Interest Rate Maturity Date $55 million 6.96 % Oct. 1, 2006 $75 million 7.25 % Oct. 1, 2008 $295 million 7.66 % Oct. 1, 2011 $75 million 7.76 % Oct. 1, 2013 Variable Rate Debt: The variable rate debt consists of $700 million of bank credit facilities comprised of: (1) Term facility of $100 million, maturing on September 30, 2002, with interest rate based on LIBOR plus 1.5% (or 3.5% at December 31, 2001). (2) Revolving line of credit available up to $600 million for general corporate purposes, maturing on September 30, 2005, with interest rate based on LIBOR plus 1.5% which includes facility fees (or 3.6% at December 31, 2001). Interest rates for both the $100 million term facility and the $600 million revolving line are based on a series of borrowings with maturities that can range from one week to six months. Therefore, despite both facilities having interest rates based on LIBOR plus 1.5%, effective interest rates at December 31, 2001 were slightly different. At December 31, 2001, we had approximately $231 million available under our line of credit. On January 3, 2002 we repaid $197 million of borrowings under the line of credit. 29 Table of Contents At December 31, 2001, the aggregate maturity dates of our long term obligations consisted of the following (in millions): Note Agreements Line of Credit Capital Leases Operating Leases 2002 $ 34 $ 1 $ 3 2003 33 1 2 2004 33 1 1 2005 32 $ 469 1 1 2006 161 1 1 Thereafter 919 15 Total $ 1,212 $ 469 $ 20 $ 8 Our borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and payment of cash dividends. Our borrowing agreements restrict dividends to stockholders based on available cash, which is generally our net income after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves and capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. In addition, our new line of credit requires that we maintain an interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio. We were in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2001. If market conditions experienced during 2001 were to persist for an extended period of time, our debt agreements would restrict our ability to maintain our current dividend level. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures, and interest and principal payments on our indebtedness for the next year. Plum Creek paid a dividend of $0.57 per share on November 30, 2001 and December 28, 2001. The December 28, 2001 dividend represents the acceleration of our fourth quarter 2001 dividend that normally would have been paid in February 2002. The February 2002 dividend was accelerated as a result of our merger with The Timber Company and the REIT requirement under the Internal Revenue Code that all earnings and profits inherited in connection with a merger must be distributed by January 31st of the year following the merger. Future dividends will be determined by our board of directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the price and demand for Plum Creeks products and the general market for timberlands and those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Other factors that our board of directors might consider include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. Capital expenditures for 2001 were $59 million, $135 million for 2000 and $113 million for 1999. Capital expenditures for 2001 include amounts for The Timber Company through October 6, 2001 and for the merged entity for the remainder of the year. Capital expenditure amounts are net of proceeds returned from like kind exchange trusts that were not reinvested within the 180 day required period. During 2001 proceeds of $51 million were returned from like kind exchange trusts. Excluding these returns, 2001 capital expenditures were $110 million and included $57 million for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees, $40 million for the purchase of timberlands, and $12 million for investments in our manufacturing facilities. During 2001 we changed our accounting method to capitalize certain timber reforestation costs that were previously expensed. This accounting method change increased the amount of reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees that were capitalized in 2001 by $18 million. 30 Table of Contents Planned capital expenditures for 2002 are expected to be approximately $100 million and include approximately $80 million for our timberlands, $15 million for the development of our coalbed methane and $5 million for our manufacturing facilities. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Other Information In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. This statement supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of and replaces the provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of Segments of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of segments of a business. SFAS No. 144 retains the fundamental provisions of SFAS No. 121 for the recognition and measurement of the impairment of long lived assets to be held and used and the measurement of long lived assets to be disposed of by sale. Under SFAS No. 144, long lived assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flow. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The statement provides accounting and reporting standards for recognizing obligations related to asset retirement costs associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Under this statement, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are to be recognized at their fair value in the period in which they are incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value of the asset retirement costs is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset and expensed using a systematic and rational method over the assets useful life. Any subsequent changes to the fair value of the liability will be expensed. Management is currently assessing the impact of this statement on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 142 addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. The provisions of SFAS No. 142 shall be applied in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, except that certain provisions of SFAS No. 142 shall be applied to goodwill and other acquired intangible assets for which the acquisition date is after June 30, 2001. The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142 in connection with the merger discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141 addresses financial accounting and reporting for business combinations. SFAS No. 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and is effective for all business combinations accounted for by the purchase method for which the date of acquisition is July 1, 2001, or later. The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 in connection with the merger discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements. 31 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Applicable to the Business of Plum Creek The Cyclical Nature of the Forest Products Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Prices and demand for logs and manufactured wood products are subject to cyclical fluctuations. The demand for logs and wood products is primarily affected by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other industrial uses. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: changes in domestic and international economic conditions; interest rates; population growth and changing demographics; and seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This results in lower revenues, profits and cash flows. Industry wide increases in the supply of logs and wood products during favorable price environments can also lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber companies generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. However, such increased production, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. Our results of operations may also be subject to global economic changes as global supplies of wood fiber shift in response to changing economic conditions. Changes in global economic conditions that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, new timber supply sources and changes in currency exchange rates, foreign and domestic interest rates and foreign and domestic trade policies. In addition, the market for and ability to sell non strategic timberlands and timberland properties that have higher and better uses can have a significant effect on our results of operations. Market demand for timberlands generally and higher and better use timberlands may decrease and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the United States market, particularly in the new home construction market. However, in 1995, the U.S. and Canadian governments entered into a five year lumber trade agreement that became effective April 1, 1996. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in late March 2001, and soon thereafter U.S. industry coalitions submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. It was reported that on March 22, 2002, the Commerce Department rendered its determination in favor of the industry coalitions and issued a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7%. It was also reported that the duties issued by the Commerce Department may not be imposed until the International Trade Commission renders its final injury determination, which is expected in May 2002. However, there is strong indication that the Canadian government will appeal any adverse final decision to the World Trade Organization, a process which could extend beyond 2002. If the final decision by the International Trade Commission results in significantly lower import tariffs on Canadian lumber before an agreement can be reached between the two countries, or if an appeal to the World 32 Table of Contents Trade Organization were determined adversely to U.S. interests, then an increase in the supply of lumber to U.S. markets from Canadian sources would likely result. Other factors remaining unchanged, such an increase would increase downward pressure on lumber and log prices. The Forest Products Industry is Highly Competitive The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non wood and engineered wood products. For example, plywood markets are subject to competition from oriented strand board, and U.S. lumber and log markets are subject to competition from other worldwide suppliers. Our Cash Dividends are Not Guaranteed and May Fluctuate On July 1, 1999, we converted from a master limited partnership to a real estate investment trust, or REIT. REITs are required to distribute 90% of their net taxable ordinary income. However, unlike ordinary income such as rent, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, does not require REITs to distribute capital gain income. Accordingly, we do not believe that the Internal Revenue Code will require us to distribute any material amounts of cash given that the majority of our income comes from timber sales, which are treated as capital gains. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of the quarterly dividends to be provided to our stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands and those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. We were required by January 31, 2002, to distribute the earnings and profits acquired from the Subsidiaries. We believe that the accelerated payment of our fourth quarter dividend for 2001, which we paid on December 28, 2001, was sufficient to distribute the Subsidiaries earnings and profits. If we failed to distribute an amount equal to the Subsidiaries earnings and profits, we might be subject to adverse tax consequences. We expect that, even if the earnings and profits of the Subsidiaries were subsequently adjusted upward by the Internal Revenue Service, the amount we distributed exceeds such earnings and profits. Nevertheless, such an adjustment may give rise to the imposition of the 4% excise tax on the excess income required to be distributed over the amounts treated as distributed after application of the earnings and profits rule. Our Ability to Harvest Timber May Be Subject to Limitations Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Much of our Northwest timberlands are intermingled with sections of Federal land managed by the United States Forest Service. In many cases, access is only, or most economically, achieved through a road or roads built across adjacent Federal land. In order to access these intermingled timberlands, we have obtained from time to time either temporary or permanent access rights across Federal lands. This process has often been, and will likely continue to be, affected by, among other things, the requirements of the Endangered Species Act, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Clean Water Act. Access and regulatory restrictions may delay or prevent us from harvesting some of our timberlands. 33 Table of Contents Our revenues, net income and cash flow from our operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. In addition, the terms of our long term debt agreements and lines of credit limit our ability to fund dividends to stockholders by accelerating the harvest of significant amounts of timber. Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware Law May Prevent a Change in Control Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a third party from seeking to gain control of us. For example, the ownership limitations described in our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or limiting a change of control in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price. The following is a summary of provisions of our certificate of incorporation which may have this effect. The Ownership Limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our certificate of incorporation prohibits ownership, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, of more than 5% of the lesser of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding or the value of the outstanding shares of our common stock by any stockholder other than by some designated persons agreed to by us or as set forth in our certificate of incorporation (the Ownership Limit). The Ownership Limit may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. The Ownership Limit in our certificate of incorporation also restricts the transfer of our common stock. For example, any transfer of our equity is null and void if the transfer would: result in any person owning, directly or indirectly, equity in excess of the Ownership Limit; result in our equity being owned, directly or indirectly, by fewer than 100 persons; result in us being closely held (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); result in us failing to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. The Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 75 million shares of preferred stock. Upon issuance, our board of directors will establish the preferences and rights for this preferred stock. These preferences and rights may include the right to elect additional directors. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control were in our stockholders best interests. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in business transactions with a person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the time such person or entity became an interested stockholder unless, prior to such time, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such person or entity becoming an interested stockholder. A business transaction may include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to the person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock. If We Fail to Qualify as a REIT, We Would Be Subject to Tax at Corporate Rates and Would Not Be Able to Deduct Dividends to Stockholders When Computing Our Taxable Income If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT: we would be subject to Federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates of approximately 39%; 34 Table of Contents we would not be allowed to deduct dividends to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or dividends to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, there cannot be any assurance that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with Federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed. Our Timberlands Are Subject to Federal and State Environmental Regulations We are subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as similar state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. We engage in the following activities which are subject to regulation: forestry activities, including harvesting, planting and road building, use and maintenance; the generation of air emissions; the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and the generation and disposal of both hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the persons negligence or fault. These laws or future legislation or administrative or judicial action with respect to protection of the environment may adversely affect our business. The Endangered Species Act and similar state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, gray wolf, grizzly bear, mountain caribou, bald eagle, karner blue butterfly, red cockaded woodpecker, bull trout, and various salmon species. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other forest practices on private, Federal and state land containing the affected species. Matters Pertaining to Arthur Andersen Arthur Andersen served as the independent certified public accountant for The Timber Company prior to The Timber Companys October 6, 2001 merger with Plum Creek. Because the merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the historical financial statements of The Timber Company are now the historical financial 35 Table of Contents statements of Plum Creek. Although Plum Creek did not engage Arthur Andersen as its certified public accountant following the merger, Plum Creeks periodic financial statements filed with the SEC include The Timber Companys historical financial statements, which were audited by Arthur Andersen. On March 14, 2002, Arthur Andersen was indicted on federal obstruction of justice charges arising from the governments investigation of Enron. Arthur Andersen has indicated that it intends to contest vigorously the indictment. The SEC has said that it will continue accepting financial statements audited by Arthur Andersen so long as Arthur Andersen is able to make certain representations to its clients. Plum Creeks access to the capital markets and its ability to make timely SEC filings could be impaired if the SEC ceases accepting financial statements audited by Arthur Andersen or if Arthur Andersen becomes unable to make the required representations to Plum Creek. In either case, Plum Creek would take such actions, if any, as may be necessary or advisable to enable Plum Creek to maintain access to the capital markets and timely financial reporting. Tax Risk Factors If Georgia Pacifics Redemption of Timber Company Common Stock Did Not Qualify for Tax Free Treatment, Georgia Pacific and the former Holders of Timber Company Common Stock Would Be Subject to Tax We and Georgia Pacific have received opinions from our respective tax counsel that the redemption by Georgia Pacific of each outstanding share of Georgia Pacific Corporation Timber Group Common Stock, or Timber Company Stock, in exchange for a unit, which represented one outstanding share of common stock of each of the former subsidiaries of Georgia Pacific which collectively held all of the assets and liabilities attributed to The Timber Company, and the mergers will generally be treated as tax free transactions for Federal income tax purposes, that is that the redemptions will be eligible for treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In rendering their respective tax opinions, tax counsel noted that the redemption presents novel factual and legal issues and that the conclusions in their opinions depend heavily on representations from our officers and those of Georgia Pacific. In addition, we and Georgia Pacific sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the treatment of the redemption as a tax free exchange under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Internal Revenue Service exercised its discretion not to issue the ruling on the basis that the evidence proffered in support of the business purposes for the redemption and the mergers did not meet the high standard that the published procedures of the Internal Revenue Service require taxpayers to satisfy in order to receive favorable rulings. It is not possible to predict whether the efforts of the parties to obtain a ruling will cause the redemption to be subject to greater scrutiny or challenge by the Internal Revenue Service. Although tax counsel have issued their respective tax opinions, such opinions are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts and no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service would not challenge the transactions and that, if the Internal Revenue Service did so, it would not be upheld by a court. If, for any reason, the redemption were not eligible for treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Georgia Pacific would recognize taxable gain on the redemption in an amount approximately equal to the value of the Subsidiaries at the time of the redemption. Under the tax matters agreement between us and Georgia Pacific, we would generally be responsible for 50% of such liability, in excess of the proceeds of the insurance policies obtained by The Timber Company, which are discussed below. Assuming that the price of our common stock on October 5, 2001 was the correct measure of the fair market value of the Subsidiaries, and assuming that Georgia Pacific had little or no tax basis in the stock of the Subsidiaries, the Federal income tax liability would be approximately $1.0 billion, excluding interest and any penalties. The Insurance Will Not Cover All Circumstances Under Which the Separation of The Timber Company and Redemption of Timber Company Common Stock Could Become Taxable to Georgia Pacific and Will Not Cover All of the Potential Tax Liability The Timber Company obtained insurance from a number of major insurance companies for a total of $500 million against the risk that Georgia Pacific would be subject to tax on the redemption. The insurance generally 36 Table of Contents only covers the risk that the legal analysis of the redemption is not accepted by the Internal Revenue Service or the courts. If, for example, the redemption was subject to tax because our representations or those of Georgia Pacific were untrue or incorrect, Georgia Pacific would likely not be able to collect under the terms of the insurance. The insurance does not cover any tax liability of a former holder of Timber Company common stock either from the redemption or the mergers. In addition, subject to specified exceptions, neither we nor Georgia Pacific may settle a claim relating to an insured tax loss without the consent of the insurers. We Will Have to Abide by Potentially Significant Restrictions With Respect to Issuances of Our Equity Securities Until October 2003 Even if the redemption otherwise qualifies for tax free treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Georgia Pacific may, nevertheless, be subject to tax under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if acquisitions or issuances of our stock following the merger cause the former holders of Timber Company common stock to own less than a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In particular, section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code will apply if such issuances or acquisitions occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the redemption. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our stock before October 2003 are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we and Georgia Pacific may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an issuance or acquisition of our stock triggers the application of section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, Georgia Pacific would recognize taxable gain on the redemption, but the redemption would generally be tax free to each of the former holders of Timber Company common stock. Under the tax matters agreement between us and Georgia Pacific, we would be required to indemnify Georgia Pacific against that taxable gain if it were triggered by an acquisition or issuance of our stock. As of the effective date of the merger, the former holders of Timber Company common stock held approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. Because of the change in control limitation imposed by section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, we may be limited in the amount of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital until October 2003. Also, our indemnity obligation to Georgia Pacific might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Approximately $1.21 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents principal cash flows (in millions) based upon maturity dates of the debt obligations and the related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt. The interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2001, was LIBOR plus 1.5% which includes facility fees (3.6%), however, this rate could range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.75% depending on our financial results. December 31, 2001: Long term debt, including current portion 2002 2002 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ 34 $ 33 $ 33 $ 32 $ 161 $ 919 $ 1,212 $ 1,218 Avg. interest rate 8.2 % 8.2 % 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % 7.8 % Variable rate debt (1) $ 469 $ 469 $ 469 (1) As of January 3, 2002, $197 million of variable rate debt was repaid. At December 30, 2000, The Timber Companys debt was an allocated portion of Georgia Pacifics outstanding debt and, therefore, the fair value of the allocated debt was not impacted by changes in market interest rates. The interest charged on the allocated debt was adjusted quarterly based on the weighted average interest rate of Georgia Pacifics debt. 37 Table of Contents 
 
