Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors immediately following this Item 7. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, or our failure to achieve the expected competitive advantages of operating as a REIT; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in the supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview Merger with The Timber Company. On October 6, 2001, the six entities that comprised The Timber Company, formerly a separate operating group of Georgia Pacific Corporation (Georgia Pacific), merged with and into Plum Creek, with Plum Creek as the surviving company. As a part of the merger, the shareholders of Georgia Pacific Corporation Timber Group Common Stock (Timber Company Stock) received 1.37 shares of Plum Creeks common stock for each share of Timber Company Stock, or approximately 112.7 million shares. The merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, with The Timber Company treated as the acquirer for accounting and financial reporting purposes. As a result, the historical financial statements of The Timber Company became the financial statements of Plum Creek effective as of the date of the merger. Consequently, our financial statements for 2002 reflect a full year of combined operations of the merged companies whereas the statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects the performance of The Timber Company until the date of the merger, and that of the merged companies for the remainder of 2001. The statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2000 reflects only the operating results of The Timber Company. See Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company had only one reportable segment. Following the merger, the combined companies report the results of five business segments. The Timber Companys historical segment information has been restated back to the beginning of 2000 to reflect these new segments. Furthermore, the period to period comparison of the results of operations for 2002 compared to 2001 and 2001 compared to PG. 16 PCL 2002 Table of Contents 2000 are based on these new segments and reflect the operating results of The Timber Company through the merger date (October 6, 2001), and the results of the combined company subsequent to the merger date. See Note 14 of the Notes to Financial Statements for segment and geographical area information. Additionally, in connection with the merger Plum Creek replaced approximately $650 million of Georgia Pacific debt attributed to The Timber Company with third party debt, consisting of $500 million of fixed rate debt and $150 million of variable rate debt. Plum Creek also assumed approximately 3.8 million outstanding stock options (after adjusting for the exchange ratio) with respect to Timber Company Stock at exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.34 (after adjusting for the exchange ratio). See Notes 1, 6 and 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 through 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. As a consequence of The Timber Company Merger, a tax benefit of approximately $216 million was recorded to reflect the elimination of a deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences related primarily to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period. Additionally, Plum Creek inherited the accumulated earnings and profits of The Timber Company and, because of certain REIT requirements, was required to distribute these earnings and profits prior to January 31, 2002. As a result, our fourth quarter 2001 dividend of $0.57 per share was accelerated and paid on December 28, 2001. The dividend normally would have been paid in February 2002. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Other Merger Related Items. During 2001, we had the following other merger related items which had an impact on our results of operations: (1) Income Tax Benefit. As a result of the entities comprising The Timber Company, each a taxable corporation, merging into Plum Creek, a REIT, which is generally not subject to federal or state income tax, a tax benefit of $216 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The benefit relates primarily to the elimination of the deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences related primarily to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during the ten year period following the merger. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. (2) Severance. In connection with The Timber Company Merger, the employment of several executives and key employees of The Timber Company terminated. Terminated employees were paid a severance and two terminated executives of The Timber Company were awarded additional pension benefits. An expense of $6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 for these severance and pension benefits. Accounting Method Changes. In 2002, the company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The change in accounting method is effective January 1, 2002 prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled after January 1, 2002. Under the transition provisions of SFAS No. 123 (as amended), no cumulative effect is recorded for this accounting change. Stock based employee compensation expense recognized for stock options granted in 2002 was approximately $400,000. Prior to 2002, the company accounted for its stock based employee compensation plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations. Except for approximately $600,000 related to the acceleration in vesting of certain Timber Company options in 2001, no stock based employee compensation cost is reflected in 2001 and 2000 net income, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. In the fourth quarter of 2001, the company changed its accounting policy to capitalize certain timber reforestation costs that were previously expensed. The cumulative effect of this policy change is not reflected in the beginning balance of Timber and Timberlands because information is not available to compute the cumulative effect of the change over the prior harvest cycle of approximately 30 years. The new capitalization policy was applied PCL 2002 PG. 17 Table of Contents retroactively as of January 1, 2001. Implementation of the new accounting policy increased the Northern Resources Segments 2001 operating income by $2 million and the Southern Resources Segments 2001 operating income by $16 million. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements, Timber and Timberlands. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company recognized revenue from timber sales under three different methods, depending upon the terms of the sale. The methods were delivered log sales, pay as cut contracts and timber deeds: (1) Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller cuts the tree and delivers it to the buyer. Risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer when the log is delivered. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered to the customer. With delivered log sales, the seller incurs the cost of logging and hauling. For the last few days of an accounting period, there are typically delivered logs for which we have not received documentation and we have not created an invoice. In that case, an accrual for these deliveries is made along with an accrual for the costs of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as cut contacts are agreements pursuant to which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each of the different types of trees over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases an advance is received in connection with pay as cut contracts, and in other cases the buyer agrees to cut only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Title and risk of loss transfer to the buyer as the trees are cut. The buyer furnishes us with supporting information for the amount of wood that has been removed along with their payment. Revenue is recognized when the trees are cut. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut contract is a function of the total volume of wood actually removed multiplied by the agreed upon per unit price for each of the various types of trees on a tract of land. There is typically a lag between the time the tree is harvested and the time the buyer pays for the tree. At the end of each accounting period, we typically make an accrual for the trees that have been cut but for which we have not received payment. (3) Timber deeds are agreements pursuant to which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). However, unlike a pay as cut contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. Subsequent to The Timber Company Merger, to comply with certain REIT requirements we replaced timber deed agreements with lump sum sale agreements. Under a lump sum sale, the parties agree to a lump sum price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. However, unlike timber deeds, title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is cut. Therefore, revenue is recognized each month based on the amount of timber actually harvested, compared to total PG. 18 PCL 2002 Table of Contents timber available to be harvested on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on timber cruise information. Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the trees are cut, an estimate of how much revenue to recognize each month is made based on how much volume has been removed compared to the total volume available for harvest on a tract of land according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer regarding how much volume has been removed. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the percentage of original timber harvested. Inevitably, the total volume harvested from a tract of land will be different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume removed is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. Finally, for our larger lump sum contracts which cover multiple tracts, we adjust revenues at the end of each accounting period for any known trends which have materialized in the tracts that have been completely harvested. While the timing of revenue recognition under a timber deed and a lump sum contract is materially different, this change is not expected to have a material impact on the year to year comparison of our results of operations. The amount of delivered log sales to external customers during 2002 was $441 million. The amount of pay as cut sales during 2002 was $89 million and the amount of revenue recognized under lump sum sale contracts during 2002 was $96 million. At December 31, 2002 accrued revenues for delivered and pay as cut log sales was $24 million and deferred revenues for lump sum contracts was $8 million. Management attempts to estimate accrued revenues at the end of each accounting period based on the best information available. Management does not believe that there is a material difference between estimated accrued revenues and actual revenues. Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, a substantial portion of our timber sales consists of either pay as cut contracts or lump sum sales. Under both pay as cut contracts and lump sum sales, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs. Therefore, operating profit percentages are significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. Real Estate Sales. As a major landowner, we estimate that approximately 400,000 acres of the companys approximately 8 million acres of timberlands are located in recreational areas or near expanding population centers and may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes, rather than for long term commercial timberland management. Furthermore, the company estimates that an additional 900,000 acres may also be suited for conservation, residential or recreational development. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Furthermore, from time to time we dispose of large non strategic timberland holdings, which may result in material gains and losses from real estate sales. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. Historically, our Real Estate Segment has reported significant operating profit percentages (ranging from 65% to 85% of revenues), and this trend is expected to continue in the future. The high operating profit percentages are primarily because a significant portion of our timberlands was acquired many years ago. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the annual appreciation in our timberlands cannot be reflected in our earnings until the year in which we sell the properties. Furthermore, in connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. This was the case in our merger with The Timber Company. Since the merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the timberlands of Plum Creek were recorded at their fair value. However, while our purchase PCL 2002 PG. 19 Table of Contents price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we were generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, within each region, we allocated this higher value proportionately among all the acres acquired, except for certain specifically identified properties. In general, however, specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. Management believes that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and it does not believe that it has the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of our properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. Depletion. Depletion expense for 2002 was $74 million. Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South and as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. For the Northern Resources Segment depletion expense in 2002 was $28 million. The average depletion rate for the Northern Resources Segment was $5.19 per ton during 2002. The amount of estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, for the Northern Resources Segment included in the calculation of the depletion rate was $141 million. The estimated future volume for the Northern Resources Segment included in the calculation of the depletion rate was 263 million tons. If the estimated future silviculture costs were increased by 10%, or $14 million, and assuming future timber volumes do not change, then the 2002 depletion expense for the Northern Resources Segment would have increased by $1 million. If the estimate of future volume for the Northern Resources Segment was decreased by 10%, or 26 million tons, and assuming future silviculture costs do not change, then the 2002 depletion expense for the Northern Resources Segment would have increased by $2 million. For the Southern Resources Segment depletion expense in 2002 was $46 million. The average depletion rate for the Southern Resources Segment was $3.30 per ton during 2002. The amount of estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, for the Southern Resources Segment included in the calculation of the depletion rate was $330 million. The estimated future volume for the Southern Resources Segment included in the calculation of the depletion rate was 417 million tons. If the estimated future silviculture costs were increased by 10% or $33 million and assuming future timber volumes do not change, then the 2002 depletion expense for the Southern Resources Segment would have increased by $1 million. If the estimate of future volume for the Southern Resources Segment was decreased by 10%, or 42 million tons, and assuming future silviculture costs do not change, then the 2002 depletion expense for the Southern Resources Segment would have increased by $5 million. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. The company has invested in technology that enables it to predict its current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and PG. 20 PCL 2002 Table of Contents fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised annually, management does not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. Deferred Income Taxes. Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code commencing July 1, 1999. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level tax if it satisfies certain requirements. On October 6, 2001, The Timber Company, consisting of a group of corporate entities, merged with and into Plum Creek. As a consequence of the merger of a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, the deferred tax liabilities of The Timber Company were eliminated except for any expected transactions that would be subject to built in gains tax. Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) only if it makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in The Timber Company Merger within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax only applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the company recorded a tax benefit of $216 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of The Timber Company Merger. The benefit of $216 million represents the elimination of the deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences related primarily to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period following the merger. Management estimates that approximately 5% of The Timber Companys timberlands will be sold in one or more taxable transactions over the ten year period ending October 5, 2011. As a result, $11 million of deferred taxes related to timberlands were not eliminated during the fourth quarter of 2001. Timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax during 2002 reduced our deferred tax liability by $245,000. This amount was lower than originally estimated because a significant portion of the proceeds from our 2002 timberland sales that would otherwise be subject to the built in gains tax were reinvested in like kind property. The built in gains tax can generally be avoided to the extent proceeds are reinvested in like kind property within the statutory time period. It is not possible to predict whether we will be able to identify suitable replacement properties in the future in order to avoid the built in gains tax. It is likely that actual timberland sales over the ten year built in gain period will be greater than, or less than, 5%. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, 5%. Long Term Incentive Plans. Plum Creek has a Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock, dividend equivalents and value management awards. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. During 2002 the company recognized $8 million of compensation expense associated with its long term incentive plans, of which $5 million related to value management awards. Value management awards, which are granted every other year, provide incentive compensation to participants that is contingent upon the companys performance measured against the performance of a peer group of forest products companies over a three year period. Value management awards are earned in whole or in part based on a sliding scale. No value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is below the 50th percentile of the peer group. The full value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is above the 75th percentile. Plum Creek recognizes compensation expense for value management awards based on the expected value of the award upon vesting and accrues the related expense over the vesting period. The actual expense cannot be determined until the end of the three year performance period. Furthermore, since the amount of the award, if any, is based on Plum Creeks relative performance compared to that of its peer group, it is possible to have significant changes to the estimated award value during the performance period. Compensation expense related to the value management awards is adjusted in the quarter in which there has been a material change in the expected vested value of the awards. Therefore, it is possible that an adjustment to the value management award expense may be material to the result of operations for the quarter and the year in which the estimated vested benefit is revised. The performance period for the 2000 grants ended on December 31, 2002 in which the full value for the awards was achieved. A total expense of $8 million was recorded over the vesting period in connection with the 2000 PCL 2002 PG. 21 Table of Contents value management award grants, of which $3 million was recorded during 2002. An expense of $2 million was recorded during 2002 in connection with the 2002 value management award grants based on expected performance. The expense in connection with the 2002 value management award grants would have been $4 million if we assumed maximum performance will be achieved for these awards. Pensions. Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Participants benefits vest after five years of service. Subsequent to The Timber Company Merger, the cash balance of benefits of salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year treasury bond rate. Furthermore, employees employed by the company on September 1, 2000 earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or the amount of a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits of hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to the plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year and management intends to fund annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (ABO, the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plans were discontinued). The plan invests in common stock, bonds and cash equivalents. The portfolio of investments during 2002 consisted of approximately 65% equities and 35% bonds. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make certain assumptions primarily involving the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, weighted average discount rate and rate of increase of future compensation levels. The expected return on plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2002 is based on the calculated value of plan assets and an 8.25% annual rate of return that is based on the composition of the pension plan assets. The assumed discount rate of 6.75% is based on Moodys long term AA corporate bond yield which is considered to represent the rate of return on high quality fixed income investments that, if invested at the measurement date, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the benefits when due. Finally, the assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels of 5.00% represents managements long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but nevertheless subject to uncertainty. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the company recognized $3.8 million of expense related to the pension plans and made cash contributions of $8.4 million. As of December 31, 2002, Plum Creek had fully funded the ABO and our balance sheet reflects an accrued net pension liability of $2.8 million. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. If the company had used a long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.00% (instead of the 8.25% that was used in computing our 2002 pension expense), pension expense for 2002 would have increased by $0.2 million. Similarly, if the company had used a weighted average discount rate of 7.00% (instead of the 7.25% that was used in computing our 2002 pension expense), pension expense for 2002 would have increased by $0.3 million. Additionally, if the company had used a rate of increase in compensation levels of 5.25% (instead of the 5.00% that was used in computing our 2002 pension expense), pension expense for 2002 would have increased by $0.2 million. Finally, if the company had used a weighted average discount rate of 6.50% to fund pension obligations to at least the ABO consistent with company policy (instead of the 6.75% that was used in computing the ABO as of December 31, 2002), pension funding for 2002 would have increased by $1.7 million. PG. 22 PCL 2002 Table of Contents Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 8.25%, a weighted average discount rate of 6.75% and a 5% rate of increase in compensation levels, management projects that our annual pension expense for 2003 will be approximately $5 million, a $1.2 million, or 32%, increase compared to 2002, and will rise to approximately $7 million annually by 2005. Over the same time period the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy is expected to be approximately $4 million during 2003 increasing to approximately $6 million in 2005. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The consolidated financial statements of the company reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has no relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Consequently, the company has no off balance sheet debt. Furthermore, except for certain interest rate hedging transactions in 2002, discussed more fully in Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements, and a financing in connection with certain installment notes receivable, which were transferred to Georgia Pacific prior to The Timber Company Merger, the company is not a party to any derivative transactions. Finally, the company does not have any transactions with related parties or affiliates other than those described in Note 12 of the Notes to Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations, contingent liabilities and commitments at December 31, 2002 (in millions): Payment due by period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years Contractual Obligations Long Term Debt Obligations $ 1,872 $ 33 $ 664 $ 286 $ 889 Operating Lease Obligations 6 3 2 1 Timber Obligations 12 1 2 3 6 Total Contractual Obligations $ 1,890 $ 37 $ 668 $ 290 $ 895 Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results Current Market Conditions Northern Resources Segment. Softwood sawtimber prices declined in 2000 and 2001 and remained weak in 2002. The weak prices were due to an ample supply of logs, reduced exports of logs and lumber from the U.S. and weak lumber prices. Softwood sawtimber prices declined further during the fourth quarter of 2002 due to log imports from Canada, increased harvest levels from timber salvage operations by competitors and depressed lumber prices. Hardwood sawtimber markets improved slightly due to a tight supply of quality sawlogs. Prices for pulpwood logs in our Northern Resource Segment declined by approximately 7% from 2001 levels. Pulpwood prices weakened due to the low demand from pulp and paper mills in the region due to worldwide overcapacity of mills that make paper products, weak pulp and paper prices and mill curtailments. Southern Resources Segment. Prices for sawtimber logs in our Southern Resources Segment began declining during the second half of 2000 and continued declining during 2001. Prices during 2002 remained weak due to weak lumber and plywood prices and oversupplied sawlog markets due in part to exceptional access to timberlands as a result of a three year drought. Log markets remained abundantly supplied due to higher yields on managed forests, shorter harvest cycles and lumber and plywood production curtailments. Softwood pulpwood prices remained weak during 2002 due to reduced demand and an increase in the available supply of logs. Demand for softwood pulpwood declined due to the continued decline in the use of paper, the increase in recycling and the increase in paper and containerboard imports from Asia. The available supply of logs increased due to exceptional access to timberlands as a result of a three year drought, the increase of plantation thinning volume from private landowners as a result of shorter harvest cycles, and a U.S. government soil conservation program. PCL 2002 PG. 23 Table of Contents Manufactured Products Segment. Composite indices for commodity lumber in 2002 were down 5% from 2001 levels, due primarily to persistent excess lumber production in North America. Despite a 6% increase in housing starts from 2001 and the highest level of housing starts in sixteen years, strong production in the U.S. and Canada and reduced exports from the U.S. created an excess supply of lumber. North American lumber capacity continued to substantially exceed lumber demand due to the increased capacity installed by many producers during the prior decade. Duties were implemented on shipments of Canadian lumber to the U.S. in May 2002. To date, the duty has had the unanticipated impact of lowering lumber prices in part because large Canadian lumber producers have increased production in order to lower their per unit manufacturing costs. Prices for our plywood in 2002 remained similar to 2001. Prices for plywood remained weak due to continued competition from lower cost OSB, which constrained plywood prices and displaced commodity plywood used in housing applications. Prices for our Medium Density Fiberboard (MDF) remained weak during 2002 due to the continued worldwide MDF overcapacity and the strong U.S. dollar, which allowed foreign producers to significantly increase their penetration in the U.S. market. Harvest Plans We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a continuous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 105,000 to 770,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, a forests progression from an unmanaged to a managed forest, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Active forest management involves the conversion of a forest from an unmanaged to a managed state. An unmanaged forest is made up largely of mature and over mature stands of timber which are growing slowly, both in terms of volume and value. In a managed forest, there exists a range of age classes, from recently planted stands to economically mature stands. The conversion of a forest from an unmanaged to a managed state can take from one to two forest generations, or rotations. Toward the end of the initial conversion process, a decline in the inventory volume is normal as the harvest of mature and over mature stands ends, and as the younger, faster growing stands have yet to reach final harvest age. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 5.5 million tons during 2002 and 2.5 million tons during 2001, a 120% increase, due to The Timber Company Merger. Had the merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company occurred prior to 2001, estimated harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment for 2001 would have approximated 5.3 million tons. Harvest levels in 2003 are expected to increase 9%. This increase is due primarily to additional harvest in Wisconsin because of the acquisition of 307,000 acres in December 2002 and additional harvest in Oregon as young stands continue to reach maturity. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 13.8 million tons during 2002 and 11.4 million tons during 2001, a 21% increase, due to The Timber Company Merger. Had the merger between Plum Creek and The Timber Company occurred prior to 2001, estimated harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment for 2001 would have approximated 13.0 million tons. Harvest levels in 2003 are expected to decrease 4% due primarily to lower hardwood pulpwood harvests. In 2002 and 2001, the company took advantage of favorable ground conditions and markets to accelerate harvests in areas with concentration of hardwood pulpwood. Actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors that may be outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. PG. 24 PCL 2002 Table of Contents U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement. The trade dispute between the United States and Canada continues to be a major source of uncertainty for U.S. lumber markets. On March 31, 2001, the five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada expired. The agreement was intended to limit the volume of lumber that was exported to the U.S. through the assessment of a tariff on annual lumber exports in excess of certain levels from the four major lumber producing Canadian provinces. Prior to this trade agreement, Canadian lumber producers were aggressively increasing their penetration into the U.S. market. Soon after the agreement expired, U.S. industry coalitions submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. On March 22, 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered its final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalitions and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties on April 26, 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. Following a final determination by the International Trade Commission on May 2, 2002 that Canadian lumber imports threaten the U.S. industry with material injury, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties on May 22, 2002. However, reports indicate that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports into the U.S. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. The final import duties imposed by the Department of Commerce have been referred to appeals panels operating under the World Trade Organization and the North American Free Trade Agreement. These appeals could ultimately be determined adversely to U.S. interests, which could result in an increase of Canadian lumber imports into U.S. markets. Moreover, notwithstanding any favorable U.S. rulings, Canadian lumber imports could otherwise increase or remain at current levels. Currently, the U.S. and Canadian governments are attempting to negotiate an agreement to settle the lumber dispute. However, there can be no assurance that an agreement will ever be reached, or that the terms of any such agreement would be favorable to the interests of the U.S. lumber industry. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. Comparability of Financial Statement Periods. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During the fourth quarter of 2002, we purchased 307,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Wisconsin, and on October 6, 2001, we completed our merger with The Timber Company. As a result of these acquisitions, our ownership increased to approximately 8.0 million acres at December 31, 2002 and 7.8 million acres at December 31, 2001 from approximately 3.2 million acres at December 31, 2000. We may sell timberlands and facilities, from time to time, if attractive opportunities arise. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. PCL 2002 PG. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table compares operating income by segment for the years ended (in millions): Operating Income by Segment December 31, December 31, December 30, 2002 2001 2000 Northern Resources $ 80 $ 30 $ 27 Southern Resources 227 187 198 Real Estate 64 59 85 Manufactured Products 1 1 Other 7 8 8 Total Segment Operating Income 379 285 318 Other Costs & Eliminations (41 ) (35 ) (15 ) Operating Income $ 338 $ 250 $ 303 As a consequence of The Timber Company Merger and the related reverse acquisition accounting treatment, the financial results for 2002 are not comparable with 2001 and the financial results for 2001 are not comparable with 2000. In order to make the 2002 and 2001 results comparable, we have excluded in the analysis below the revenues and expenses related to Plum Creeks assets and liabilities for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002. Furthermore, in order to make the 2001 and 2000 results comparable, we have excluded in the analysis below the revenues and expenses related to Plum Creeks assets and liabilities for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001. 2002 Compared to 2001 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $184 million, or 135%, to $320 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual revenues increased by $22 million, or 16%, to $158 million in 2002. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to higher softwood sawlog sales volume as a result of the age class distribution of our Oregon Timberlands, which has an increasing percentage of mature timber. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Northern Resources Segment annual operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2002 and 22% for 2001. This increase was due primarily to higher softwood sawlog volume. Northern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $134 million, or 126%, to $240 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual costs and expenses increased by $8 million, or 8%, to $114 million. This increase of $8 million was due primarily to higher log and haul costs as a result of higher sales volume. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $104 million, or 33%, to $423 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual revenues increased by $63 million, or 20%, to $382 million in 2002. This increase of $63 million was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales ($37 million) and higher log sales volume ($35 million), offset in part by selling stumpage under lump sum contracts as compared to timber deeds ($8 million). Revenues increased by $37 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. The company increased its percentage of delivered log sales by decreasing its percentage of sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. As a result, the company realizes lower margins as a percent of revenues, although operating income is not generally affected. PG. 26 PCL 2002 Table of Contents Revenues increased by $35 million due to higher sales volume. The increased log sales volume was due primarily to a temporary (24 to 36 months) increase in harvest levels. This temporary increase resulted from accelerating the conversion of slower growing natural stands to faster growing plantations. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Southern Resources Segment annual operating income was 57% of its revenues for 2002 and 59% for 2001. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $64 million, or 48%, to $196 million. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $33 million, or 25%, to $166 million in 2002. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber and higher sales volume. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $18 million, or 23%, to $98 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues decreased by $20 million, or 25%, to $60 million. This decrease of $20 million was due primarily to the timing of real estate sales. As a major landowner, approximately 400,000 acres of the companys approximately 8 million acres of timberlands are located in recreational areas or near expanding population centers and may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes, rather than for long term commercial timberland management. Furthermore, the company estimates that an additional 900,000 acres may also be suited for conservation, residential or recreational development. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, the companys expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Real Estate Segment operating income was 78% of its revenues for 2002 and 74% for 2001. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of conservation easements during 2002. There is no book basis allocated to the sale of conservation easements. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $13 million, or 62%, to $34 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses decreased by $8 million, or 38%, to $13 million. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $295 million, or 343%, to $381 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues increased by $4 million, or 5%, to $90 million. This increase of $4 million was due primarily to our new thin board MDF facility, which began operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. We sold 18 million square feet of thin board MDF during the fourth quarter of 2002 compared to 5 million square feet during the fourth quarter of 2001. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $5 million during 2002 compared to $1 million of operating income during 2001. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to lower lumber prices as a result of excess supply caused by over production by U.S. and Canadian mills and higher MDF operating costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $295 million, or 347%, to $380 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $10 million, or 12%, to $95 million. This increase of $10 million was primarily due to higher MDF production volume and higher MDF operating costs. Other Segment. Revenues were $9 million in 2002 and 2001. Expenses were $2 million during 2002, an increase of $1 million over 2001. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $41 million in 2002, compared to a decrease of $35 million in 2001. This change of $6 million was due primarily to $22 million of higher corporate expenses due to the increase in the size of the company, offset by a reduction of $10 million for intercompany profit elimination and $6 million for severance costs. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we incurred $6 million of merger related PCL 2002 PG. 27 Table of Contents severance costs. Profit on intercompany log sales is deferred until the lumber and plywood manufacturing facilities convert existing log inventories into finished products and sell them to third parties. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company did not have any deferred profit on log sales. From the date of the merger to December 31, 2001, the company deferred profit of $9 million on intercompany log sales. The company released intercompany profit of $1 million during 2002. At December 31, 2002 the deferred profit on intercompany sales was $8 million. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $49 million, or 91%, to $103 million for 2002. This increase was due primarily to the $837 million of Plum Creeks debt that was acquired in connection with The Timber Company Merger. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $2 million for 2002 compared to a net benefit of $142 million for 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recognized a tax benefit of $216 million in connection with The Timber Company Merger. For the period January 1, 2001 to October 5, 2001, The Timber Company recognized a tax expense of approximately $70 million. As a REIT, Plum Creek is generally not subject to corporate income tax except for certain transactions that are subject to built in gains tax and certain non REIT activities that are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. 2001 Compared to 2000 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $57 million, or 72%, to $136 million in 2001. Excluding revenues (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues decreased by $8 million, or 10%, to $71 million. This decrease of $8 million was due primarily to lower softwood sawlog prices. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 15% due primarily to weak lumber and plywood prices and an abundant supply of logs. Product prices decreased due primarily to the slowing U.S. economy and excess lumber and plywood capacity. There was an abundant supply of logs due primarily to numerous lumber and plywood mill closures as a result of weak product prices. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001), Northern Resources Segment operating income was 20% of its revenues for 2001 and 35% for 2000. This decline was due primarily to lower softwood sawlog prices. Northern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $54 million, or 104%, to $106 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $5 million, or 10%, to $57 million. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 5%, to $319 million in 2001. Excluding revenues (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, total revenues for this segment were stable at $303 million for both 2001 and 2000. However, even though total segment revenues did not change, there were significant changes in revenue components. Segment revenues decreased by $38 million due to lower log prices. However, this decrease was offset in part by increases of $18 million resulting from a higher percentage of delivered log sales, and $15 million resulting from higher harvest levels. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 14% due primarily to weak lumber and plywood prices and an abundant supply of logs. Product prices decreased due primarily to the slowing U.S. economy and excess lumber and plywood capacity. In turn, log supplies were abundant primarily because of numerous lumber and plywood mill closures resulting from weak product prices. Revenues increased by $18 million due to a greater percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs, whereas the buyer incurs these costs when standing timber is sold. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001), Southern Resources Segment operating income was 60% of its revenues for 2001 and 65% for 2000. This decline PG. 28 PCL 2002 Table of Contents was due primarily to lower softwood sawlog prices. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $27 million, or 26%, to $132 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $18 million, or 17%, to $123 million. This increase of $18 million was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs and higher depletion expense, offset in part by lower operating expenses. Log and haul costs increased by $18 million due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Depletion expense increased by $12 million due primarily to a refinement in the amount of future silviculture costs that are expected to be incurred to generate expected growth rates. Operating expenses decreased by $11 million due primarily to the change in accounting method for silviculture costs. Beginning in 2001, silviculture costs were capitalized while they were expensed in 2000. Real Estate Segment. Revenues decreased by $23 million, or 22%, to $80 million in 2001. Excluding revenues (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues decreased by $29 million, or 28%, to $74 million. This decrease of $29 million was due primarily to the timing of real estate sales. As a major landowner, approximately 400,000 acres of the companys approximately 8 million acres of timberlands are located in recreational areas or near expanding population centers and may be better suited for conservation, residential or recreational purposes, rather than for long term commercial timberland management. Furthermore, the company estimates that an additional 900,000 acres may also be suited for conservation, residential or recreational development. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, the companys expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001), Real Estate Segment operating income was 80% of its revenues for 2001 and 83% for 2000. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $3 million, or 17%, to $21 million in 2001. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses decreased by $3 million, or 17%, to $15 million. Manufactured Products Segment. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, the financial statements represent those of The Timber Company which did not have any manufacturing operations. For the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2001 Manufactured Products Segment revenues were $86 million, expenses were $85 million and operating income was $1 million. Other Segment. Revenues increased by $1 million, or 13%, to $9 million in 2001. Expenses were $1 million during 2001 but were less than $1 million during 2000. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $35 million in 2001, compared to a decrease of $15 million in 2000. This change of $20 million was due primarily to $9 million of intercompany profit elimination, $6 million of merger related severance costs and higher corporate expenses due to the increase in size of the company. At December 31, 2001, the deferred profit on intercompany log sales was $9 million. Profit on intercompany log sales is deferred until the lumber and plywood manufacturing facilities convert existing log inventories into finished products and sell them to third parties. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company did not have any deferred profit on log sales. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $10 million, or 23%, to $54 million for 2001. This increase was due primarily to the $837 million of Plum Creeks debt that was acquired in connection with The Timber Company Merger. Financial Condition and Liquidity Net cash provided by operating activity increased by $145 million, or 65%, to $368 million for 2002 compared to $223 million for 2001. The increase of $145 million was due primarily to The Timber Company Merger. As a PCL 2002 PG. 29 Table of Contents result, non cash operating expenses (depreciation, depletion, amortization and basis of real estate sold) increased by $60 million and cash taxes decreased by $52 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $223 million in 2001 compared to $593 million in 2000, a decrease of $370 million. This decrease of $370 million was due primarily to the monetization in 2000 of an installment note receivable from the sale of 194,000 acres of timberlands in California during 1999. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2002 was $246 million compared to $193 million at December 31, 2001. The increase was due primarily to Plum Creek accelerating the payment of the fourth quarter 2001 dividend. Plum Creek paid the dividend for the fourth quarter of 2001 on December 28, 2001. Normally, the fourth quarter dividend for 2001 would have been paid in February 2002. The payment of the fourth quarter 2001 dividend was accelerated because of our merger with The Timber Company and the REIT requirement under the Internal Revenue Code that all earnings and profits inherited in connection with a merger must be distributed by January 31st of the year following the merger. On October 6, 2001, in connection with The Timber Company Merger, Plum Creek issued approximately 112.7 million shares and assumed 3.8 million stock options, and replaced the approximate $650 million of Georgia Pacific debt that was allocated to The Timber Company with third party debt. The $650 million of debt was replaced with $500 million of fixed rate debt and $150 million of variable rate debt. At December 31, 2002, our lines of credit were comprised of a $600 million revolving line of credit maturing on September 30, 2005 and a $150 million 364 day revolving line of credit maturing on November 25, 2003. The rates for both revolving lines of credit are based on LIBOR plus 1.5%, which includes facility fees. Interest rates for both revolving lines are based on a series of borrowings with maturities that can range from one week to six month. The average interest rate for both facilities at December 31, 2002 was 3.6% and on January 2, 2003, the average rate was 3.0%. Borrowings on the lines of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. Subject to customary covenants, the lines of credit allow for borrowings from time to time up to $750 million, including up to $50 million of standby letters of credit. As of December 31, 2002, $80 million remained available for borrowing under the lines of credit and there were outstanding standby letters of credit of $658,000. In January 2003, $246 million of the borrowings under the line of credit was repaid. The 364 day Revolving Line of Credit was classified as long term debt due to the companys intent and subsequent refinancing of these borrowings on a long term basis. On January 22, 2003, the company issued $300 million of senior notes maturing serially in 2008 to 2013 consisting of the following (in millions): Principal Amount Interest Rate Maturity $ 20 3 month LIBOR plus 1.445% 2008 47 4.96% 2008 55 5.48% 2010 178 6.18% 2013 $300 The proceeds from the issuance of these notes were used to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the lines of credit and for general business funding purposes. Our borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. In addition, our lines of credit require that we maintain an interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio. We were in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2002. PG. 30 PCL 2002 Table of Contents Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures, and interest and principal payments on our indebtedness for the next year. On January 28, 2003, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.35 per share for the fourth quarter of 2002. Total dividends for the fourth quarter will approximate $65 million and will be paid on February 28, 2003 to stockholders of record on February 14, 2003. Future dividends will be determined by our board of directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the price and demand for Plum Creeks products and the general market for timberlands and those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Other factors that our board of directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. On October 17, 2002, our board authorized the company to buy back up to $200 million of the companys outstanding common stock. In January 2003, the company began to purchase shares of common stock. As of February 28, 2003 the company had bought back 1,406,600 shares of common stock for a total cost of $30.4 million. Capital expenditures for 2002 were $249 million, $59 million for 2001 and $135 million for 2000. The capital expenditures amount for 2002 includes approximately $141 million for the acquisition of 307,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Wisconsin from Stora Enso North America Corporation. The $141 million purchase price was primarily financed using existing lines of credit. Planned capital expenditures for 2003 are expected to be approximately $92 million and include approximately $60 million for our timberlands, $15 million for the development of our coalbed methane and $6 million for our manufacturing facilities. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Other Information In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The statement provides accounting and reporting standards for recognizing obligations related to asset retirement costs associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. Under this statement, legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets are to be recognized at their fair value in the period in which they are incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The fair value of the asset retirement costs is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset and expensed using a systematic and rational method over the assets useful lives. Any subsequent changes to the fair value of the liability will be expensed. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 45,Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. FIN No. 45 expands on the accounting guidance of FASB No. 5, 57 and 107 and incorporates without change the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 34. FIN No. 45 provides guidance for the initial recognition and measurement, applicable prospectively to all guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, and disclosure requirements effective for financial statements of interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2002. Adoption of this interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) No. 46,Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. FIN No. 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have (i) the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or (ii) sufficient at risk equity. FIN No. 46 applies to a broad range of unconsolidated investee entities (e.g. joint ventures, partnerships and cost basis investments) and, effective for financial statements issued after January 31, PCL 2002 PG. 31 Table of Contents 2003, adds certain disclosure requirements. Adoption of this interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Applicable to the Business of Plum Creek The Cyclical Nature of the Forest Products Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Prices and demand for logs and manufactured wood products are subject to cyclical fluctuations. The demand for logs and wood products is primarily affected by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other industrial uses. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: changes in domestic and international economic conditions; interest rates; population growth and changing demographics; and seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This results in lower revenues, profits and cash flows. Industry wide increases in the supply of logs and wood products during favorable price environments can also lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber companies generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. However, such increased production, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. Our results of operations may also be subject to global economic changes as global supplies of wood fiber shift in response to changing economic conditions. Changes in global economic conditions that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, new timber supply sources and changes in currency exchange rates, foreign and domestic interest rates and foreign and domestic trade policies. In addition, the market for and ability to sell non strategic timberlands and timberland properties that have higher and better uses can have a significant effect on our results of operations. Market demand for timberlands generally and higher and better use timberlands may decrease and adversely affect our results of operations. The Forest Products Industry is Highly Competitive The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non wood and engineered wood products. For example, plywood markets are subject to competition from oriented strand board, and U.S. lumber and log markets are subject to competition from other worldwide suppliers. Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. In 1995, the U.S. and Canadian governments entered into a five year lumber trade agreement that became effective April 1, 1996. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. from the four major producing Canadian provinces through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels. The trade agreement expired in late March 2001, and soon thereafter U.S. industry coalitions submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. On March 22, 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered its final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalitions and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these PG. 32 PCL 2002 Table of Contents duties on April 26, 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. Following a final determination by the International Trade Commission on May 2, 2002 that Canadian lumber imports threaten the U.S. industry with material injury, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties on May 22, 2002. However, reports indicate that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports into the U.S. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. The final import duties imposed by the Department of Commerce have been referred to appeals panels operating under the World Trade Organization and the North American Free Trade Agreement. These appeals could ultimately be determined adversely to U.S. interests, which could result in an increase of Canadian lumber imports into U.S. markets. Moreover, notwithstanding any favorable U.S. rulings, Canadian lumber imports could otherwise increase or remain at current levels. Currently, the U.S. and Canadian governments are attempting to negotiate an agreement to settle the lumber dispute. However, there can be no assurance that an agreement will ever be reached, or that the terms of any such agreement would be favorable to the interests of the U.S. lumber industry. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. Our Cash Dividends are Not Guaranteed and May Fluctuate On July 1, 1999, we converted from a master limited partnership to a real estate investment trust, or REIT. REITs are required to distribute 90% of their net taxable ordinary income. However, unlike ordinary income such as rent, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, does not require REITs to distribute capital gain income. Accordingly, we do not believe that the Internal Revenue Code will require us to distribute any material amounts of cash given that the majority of our income comes from timber sales, which are treated as capital gains. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of the quarterly dividends to be provided to our stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands and those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. We were required by January 31, 2002, to distribute the earnings and profits acquired from the six entities that comprised The Timber Company. We believe that the accelerated payment of our fourth quarter dividend for 2001, which we paid on December 28, 2001, was sufficient to distribute these earnings and profits. If we failed to distribute an amount equal to these earnings and profits, we might be subject to adverse tax consequences. We expect that, even if the earnings and profits were subsequently adjusted upward by the Internal Revenue Service, the amount we distributed exceeds such earnings and profits. Nevertheless, such an adjustment may give rise to the imposition of the 4% excise tax on the excess income required to be distributed over the amounts treated as distributed after application of the earnings and profits rule. Our Ability to Harvest Timber May Be Subject to Limitations Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Much of our Northwest timberlands are intermingled with sections of federal land managed by the United States Forest Service. In many cases, access is only, or most economically, achieved through a road or roads built across adjacent federal land. In order to access these intermingled timberlands, we have obtained from time to time either PCL 2002 PG. 33 Table of Contents temporary or permanent access rights across federal lands. This process has often been, and will likely continue to be, affected by, among other things, the requirements of the Endangered Species Act, the National Environmental Policy Act and the Clean Water Act. Access and regulatory restrictions may delay or prevent us from harvesting some of our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from our operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. In addition, the terms of our long term debt agreements and lines of credit limit our ability to fund dividends to stockholders by accelerating the harvest of significant amounts of timber. Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware Law May Prevent a Change in Control Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a third party from seeking to gain control of us. For example, the ownership limitations described in our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or limiting a change of control in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price. The following is a summary of provisions of our certificate of incorporation that may have this effect. The Ownership Limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our certificate of incorporation prohibits ownership, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, of more than 5% of the lesser of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding or the value of the outstanding shares of our common stock by any stockholder other than by some designated persons agreed to by us or as set forth in our certificate of incorporation (the Ownership Limit). The Ownership Limit may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. The Ownership Limit in our certificate of incorporation also restricts the transfer of our common stock. For example, any transfer of our equity is null and void if the transfer would: result in any person owning, directly or indirectly, equity in excess of the Ownership Limit; result in our equity being owned, directly or indirectly, by fewer than 100 persons; result in us being closely held (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); result in us failing to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. The Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 75 million shares of preferred stock. Upon issuance, our board of directors will establish the preferences and rights for this preferred stock. These preferences and rights may include the right to elect additional directors. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control were in our stockholders best interests. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in business transactions with a person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the time such person or entity became an interested stockholder unless, prior to such time, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such person or entity becoming an interested stockholder. A business transaction may include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to the person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock. PG. 34 PCL 2002 Table of Contents If We Fail to Qualify as a REIT, We Would Be Subject to Tax at Corporate Rates and Would Not Be Able to Deduct Dividends to Stockholders When Computing Our Taxable Income If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT: we would be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates of approximately 39%; we would not be allowed to deduct dividends to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or dividends to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, there cannot be any assurance that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed. Our Timberlands and Manufacturing Facilities Are Subject to Federal and State Environmental Regulations We are subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as similar state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. We engage in the following activities that are subject to regulation: forestry activities, including harvesting, planting and road building, use and maintenance; the generation of air emissions; the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and the generation and disposal of both hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the persons negligence or fault. These laws or future legislation or administrative or judicial action with respect to protection of the environment may adversely affect our business. The Endangered Species Act and similar state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, gray wolf, grizzly bear, mountain caribou, bald eagle, Karner blue butterfly, red cockaded woodpecker, bull trout, and various salmon species. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other forest practices on private, federal and state land containing the affected species. PCL 2002 PG. 35 Table of Contents Matters Pertaining to Arthur Andersen Arthur Andersen served as the independent certified public accountant for The Timber Company prior to The Timber Companys October 6, 2001 merger with Plum Creek. Because the merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the historical financial statements of The Timber Company are now the historical financial statements of Plum Creek. Although Plum Creek did not engage Arthur Andersen as its certified public accountant following the merger, Plum Creeks periodic financial statements filed with the SEC include The Timber Companys historical financial statements, which were audited by Arthur Andersen. On March 14, 2002, Arthur Andersen was indicted on federal obstruction of justice charges arising from the governments investigation of Enron. On June 15, 2002, Arthur Andersen was found guilty of obstruction of justice. As a result of this conviction, Arthur Andersen ceased practicing before the SEC in August of 2002. The SEC has provided regulatory relief designed to allow companies that file reports with the SEC to dispense with the filing of a consent or report of Arthur Andersen in certain circumstances. Notwithstanding the SECs regulatory relief, the inability of Arthur Andersen to provide a consent or report could negatively affect Plum Creeks ability to access the capital markets. Tax Risk Factors If Georgia Pacifics Redemption of Timber Company Common Stock Did Not Qualify for Tax Free Treatment, Georgia Pacific and the former Holders of Timber Company Common Stock Would Be Subject to Tax We and Georgia Pacific sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that neither Georgia Pacific nor the holders of Timber Company Stock would recognize gain for federal income tax purposes with respect to Georgia Pacifics redemption of each outstanding share of Timber Company Stock. The Internal Revenue Service exercised its discretion not to issue the ruling on the basis that the evidence proffered in support of the business purposes for the redemption did not meet the high standard that the published procedures of the Internal Revenue Service require taxpayers to satisfy in order to receive favorable rulings. As a result, we and Georgia Pacific received opinions from our respective tax counsel that the redemption would be tax free under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. These opinions, however, are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. If, for any reason, the redemption was not eligible for treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Georgia Pacific would recognize gain on the redemption and we would generally be responsible for 50% of such liability in excess of the proceeds of the insurance policies obtained by The Timber Company to cover a portion of such exposure. On September 13, 2002, Georgia Pacific entered into a Closing Agreement with the Internal Revenue Service completing a pre filing review of Georgia Pacifics federal income tax reporting of the redemption of Timber Company Stock. Under the terms of the Closing Agreement, the Internal Revenue Service agreed that neither Georgia Pacific nor the former holders of Timber Company Stock would recognize a gain or loss as a result of the redemption of Timber Company Stock. Georgia Pacific and we believe that the Closing Agreement is conclusive with respect to the most material tax consequences associated with Georgia Pacifics redemption of Timber Company Stock, except as described below with respect to section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. We Will Have to Abide by Potentially Significant Restrictions With Respect to Issuances of Our Equity Securities Until October 2003 The Closing Agreement between Georgia Pacific and the Internal Revenue Service regarding Georgia Pacifics redemption of Timber Company Stock is based on facts that were in existence on the date of redemption. Georgia Pacific may be subject to tax under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if acquisitions or issuances of our stock following the merger cause the former holders of Timber Company Stock to own less than a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In particular, section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code will apply if such issuances or acquisitions occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the redemption. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our stock before October 2003 are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we and Georgia Pacific may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an issuance or acquisition of PG. 36 PCL 2002 Table of Contents our stock triggers the application of section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, Georgia Pacific would recognize taxable gain on the redemption, but the redemption would generally be tax free to each of the former holders of Timber Company Stock. Assuming the price of our common stock on October 5, 2001 was the correct measure of the fair market value of the six entities that comprised The Timber Company, and assuming that Georgia Pacific had little or no tax basis in the stock of the six entities that comprised The Timber Company, the federal income tax liability would be approximately $1.0 billion, excluding interest and any penalties. Under the tax matters agreement between us and Georgia Pacific, we would be required to indemnify Georgia Pacific against that taxable gain if it were triggered by an acquisition or issuance of our stock. As of the effective date of the merger, the former holders of Timber Company Stock held approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. Because of the change in control limitation imposed by section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, we may be limited in the amount of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or to raise additional capital until October 2003. Also, our indemnity obligation to Georgia Pacific might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Approximately $1.2 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents principal cash flows (in millions) based upon maturity dates of the debt obligations and the related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt. The interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2002, was LIBOR plus 1.5% which includes facility fees (3.6%), however, this rate could range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.75% depending on our financial results. Fair December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Value(B) Long term debt, including current portion Fixed rate debt $ 33 $ 33 $ 32 $ 161 $ 125 $ 819 $ 1,203 $ 1,335 Avg. interest rate 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % 7.9 % 7.8 % 7.7 % Variable rate debt(A) $ 599 $ 70 $ 669 $ 669 (A) In January 2003, $246 million of variable rate debt was repaid. (B) The increase in the fair value of fixed rate debt compared to 2001 is due primarily to a decline in market interest rates for long term debt. Fair December 31, 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Value Long term debt, including current portion Fixed rate debt $ 34 $ 33 $ 33 $ 32 $ 161 $ 919 $ 1,212 $ 1,218 Avg. interest rate 8.2 % 8.2 % 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % 7.8 % Variable rate debt $ 469 $ 469 $ 469 PCL 2002 PG. 37 Table of Contents 
 
