Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors immediately following this Item 7. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, or our failure to achieve the expected competitive advantages of operating as a REIT; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in the supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. OVERVIEW Operating Performance Operating income decreased by $35 million, or 10%, to $303 million in 2003. This decrease of $35 million was due primarily to lower operating income from our Real Estate, Southern Resources and Manufactured Products Segments. Despite real estate revenues increasing by $26 million to $124 million, operating income from our Real Estate Segment decreased by $17 million, or 27%, to $47 million. This decrease was due primarily to higher cost basis as a result of a $14 million impairment charge and a $20 million reduction in the sale of conservation easements. Operating income from our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $11 million, or 5%, to $216 million due primarily to the harvesting of smaller logs in 2003. During 2003, our Manufactured Products Segment reported an operating loss of $5 million compared to operating income of $1 million during 2002. This decrease of $6 million was due primarily to low lumber prices resulting from an industry wide excess supply of lumber. Despite the $35 million decline in operating income, net cash provided by operating activity increased by $1 million to $369 million in 2003. This difference was due primarily to a $26 million increase in timberland sales and a $14 million impairment charge related to real estate held for sale. Real estate basis and impairment charges are non cash expenses, which reduce operating income but do not impact net cash provided by operating activity. Key Economic Factors Impacting Our Business Our operating performance is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather. In general, there were favorable harvesting conditions during most of 2003, and as a result, there was an ample supply of logs. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Housing starts are impacted primarily by interest rates. Mortgage interest rates continued at historically low levels during 2003 (averaging 5.8% for the year based on a 30 year fixed rate conventional loan), which contributed to U.S. housing starts of approximately 1.8 million units during 2003, their highest level in the past 25 years. Despite these record housing starts, U.S. lumber prices during the first half of 2003 were weak due in part to excess North American lumber production. Imports of lumber and other wood products into the United States are impacted by currency exchange rates, tariffs and quotas, and the relative cost of manufacturing wood products. Canadian imports into the U.S. capture a significant share (between 33% and 34%) of the U.S. lumber market. A U.S. industry coalition believes the Canadian government, which owns most of the timberlands in Canada, provides unfair subsidies by selling timber at below market prices. Prior to 2002, a trade agreement with Canada limited imports of lumber into the United States. Since May 2002, the U.S. has imposed duties on Canadian imports. At the same time, the U.S. and Canada have been trying to reach a negotiated settlement, but to date no settlement has been reached. Furthermore, reports indicate that the U.S. imposed duties have had the unintended consequences of causing some Canadian lumber manufacturers to increase their lumber production to lower their average production costs. For the past several years, the U.S. dollar has been strong compared to other major currencies in the world. The strong U.S. dollar has given Canada and other exporting lumber countries a cost advantage over U.S. lumber manufacturers. The U.S. dollar declined, however, during 2003 against the Canadian dollar (which appreciated by approximately 20% during 2003) and several other major currencies. During the second half of 2003, U.S. lumber prices improved in response to the stronger Canadian dollar. Core Timberlands During 2003, we completed an evaluation of our timberlands. We concluded that approximately 67% (5.4 million acres) of our timberlands are highly productive and strategically located near key customers and markets. We also identified approximately 16% (1.35 million acres) of our timberlands as having values well in excess of timberland values (higher and better use timberlands). These properties are better suited for recreational, conservation or development purposes. Finally, we identified approximately 17% (1.4 million acres) of our timberlands as being non strategic. We expect to sell our higher and better use timberlands over the next 15 years. Approximately half of the non strategic timberlands are made up of large parcels that are expected to be sold over the next two years. The other half of the non strategic timberlands, which are generally in smaller tracts, is expected to be sold over the next five to ten years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The capital generated from the sale of timberlands will be used to increase the value of the company. Uses may include strategic acquisitions of additional core timberlands, investments in our business, payments of dividends, repayments of debt and or repurchases of our stock. Harvest Levels Our operating performance is also impacted by the volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood included in our annual harvest. During 2003, we harvested a total of 19.0 million tons compared to a total of 19.3 million tons during 2002. We expect to harvest approximately 19 million tons during 2004. Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company recognized revenue from timber sales under three different methods, depending upon the terms of the sale. The methods were delivered log sales, pay as cut contracts and timber deeds: (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller cuts the tree and delivers it to the buyer. Risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer when the log is delivered. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered to the customer. With delivered log sales, the seller incurs the cost of logging and hauling. For the last few days of an accounting period, there are typically delivered logs for which we have not received documentation and we have not created an invoice. In that case, an accrual for these deliveries is made along with an accrual for the costs of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Contracts. Pay as cut contracts are agreements pursuant to which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each of the different types of trees over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases an advance is received in connection with pay as cut contracts, and in other cases the buyer agrees to cut only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Title and risk of loss transfer to the buyer as the trees are cut. The buyer furnishes us with supporting information for the amount of wood that has been removed along with their payment. Revenue is recognized when the trees are cut. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut contract is a function of the total volume of wood actually removed multiplied by the agreed upon per unit price for each of the various types of trees on a tract of land. There is typically a lag between the time the tree is harvested and the time the buyer pays for the tree. At the end of each accounting period, we make an accrual for the trees that have been cut but for which we have not received payment. (3) Timber Deeds. Timber deeds are agreements pursuant to which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). However, unlike a pay as cut contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. Subsequent to The Timber Company Merger, to comply with certain REIT requirements we replaced timber deed agreements with lump sum sale agreements. Under a lump sum sale, the parties agree to a lump sum price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. However, unlike timber deeds, title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is cut. Therefore, revenue is recognized each month based on the amount of timber actually harvested, compared to total timber available to be harvested on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on timber cruise information. Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the trees are cut, an estimate of how much revenue to recognize each month is made based on how much volume has been removed compared to the total volume available for harvest on a tract of land according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer regarding how much volume has been removed. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the percentage of original timber harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume removed is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. Finally, for our larger lump sum contracts, which cover multiple tracts, we adjust revenues at the end of each accounting period for any known trends, which have materialized in the tracts that have been completely harvested. For lumpsum contracts completed during the past eight quarters, our largest quarterly adjustment to record the difference between estimated lump sum revenues and actual revenues has been $0.6 million. While the timing of revenue recognition under a timber deed and a lump sum contract is materially different, this change is not expected to have a material impact on the year to year comparison of our results of operations. The following tables summarize amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2003 2002 Revenues from Delivered log sales $ 520 $ 441 Pay as cut sales $ 66 $ 89 Lump sum sales $ 53 $ 96 December 31,2003 December 31,2002 Accrued revenues for delivered and pay as cut log sales $ 33 $ 24 Deferred revenues for lump sum contracts $ 4 $ 8 We attempt to estimate accrued revenues at the end of each accounting period based on the best information available. We do not believe that there is a material difference between estimated accrued revenues and actual revenues. Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, a substantial portion of our timber sales consists of either pay as cut contracts or lump sum sales. Under both pay as cut contracts and lump sum sales, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs. Therefore, operating profit percentages are significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. Real Estate Sales We estimate that included in the companys 8.1 million acres of timberlands are 1.35 million acres of higher and better use timberlands and 1.4 million acres of non strategic timberlands. The higher and better use timberlands are expected to be sold over the next 15 years for conservation, residential or recreational purposes. Approximately half of the non strategic timberlands are expected to be sold in large blocks over the next two years. The other half of the non strategic timberlands, which are generally in smaller tracts, is expected to be sold over the next five to ten years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales, however, is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2003, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 40%. Historically, our Real Estate Segment has reported significant operating profit percentages (ranging from 65% to 85% of revenues). However, operating profit percentages vary significantly and depend upon the mix of real estate sales. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because no book basis is allocated to this type of revenue. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company Merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have low operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. In connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales, as was the case in The Timber Company Merger. Since the merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the timberlands of Plum Creek were recorded at their fair value. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we were generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, within each region, we allocated this higher value proportionately among all the acres acquired, except for certain specifically identified properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. Impairment of Long Lived Assets In general, the company evaluates its ability to recover its net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, the company estimates the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The cash flows are discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks associated with the recovery of the assets carrying value. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. The company has grown substantially through acquisitions in recent years. A large portion of the carrying value of the companys Timber and Timberlands, and Property, Plant and Equipment represents amounts of the purchase price of recent acquisitions allocated to those assets. The allocation of the purchase price in a business combination is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. The company tracks cash flows for its 8.1 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into 7 geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and 11 geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, the company tracks cash flows for each of its 10 manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of such assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. The company uses one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of its timber and timberlands. As a result of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in its business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such asset exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. Each of the foregoing occurred during the first quarter of 2003 in connection with 29,000 acres of non strategic timberlands that were sold during the second quarter of 2003. As a result, we recorded an impairment loss of $9 million during the first quarter of 2003. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2003 we recognized an impairment loss of $5 million related to non strategic timberlands that are expected to be sold during 2004. We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is possible that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful live of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. We currently estimate that the carrying value for each of its manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, wood product prices were at depressed levels during the first half of 2003. If product prices were to remain depressed for an extended period of time, or if other key cash flow assumptions are revised in the future, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. Depletion Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South and as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2003 2002 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 23 $ 28 Southern Resources Segment 44 46 Total depletion expense $ 67 $ 74 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment (A) $ 4.16 $ 5.19 Southern Resources Segment $ 3.25 $ 3.30 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation Northern Resources Segment (B) $ 58 $ 141 Southern Resources Segment $ 330 $ 330 Estimated future volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 289 263 Southern Resources Segment 441 417 Sensitivity of 2003 Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in depletion expense for every 10%: increase in estimated future silviculture costs (C) Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.0 decrease in estimated future volume (D) Northern Resources Segment $ 2.6 Southern Resources Segment $4.8    (A) Average depletion rate decreased primarily due to harvesting a higher percentage of trees during 2003 from regions with low depletion rates. (B) During 2003, we reevaluated the economic benefits associated with silviculture expenditures in Montana and decided to significantly reduce the number of acres and the number of years in which silviculture expenditures are applied. (C) Assumes future timber volumes do not change. (D) Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. The company has invested in technology that enables it to predict its current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. Deferred Income Taxes Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code commencing July 1, 1999. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level tax if it satisfies certain requirements. On October 6, 2001, The Timber Company, consisting of a group of corporate entities, merged with and into Plum Creek. As a consequence of the merger of a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, the deferred tax liabilities of The Timber Company were eliminated except for any expected transactions that would be subject to built in gains tax. Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) only if it makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in The Timber Company Merger within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax only applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the company recorded a tax benefit of $216 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of The Timber Company Merger. The benefit of $216 million represents the elimination of the deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences related primarily to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period following the merger. We estimate that approximately 5% of The Timber Companys timberlands will be sold in one or more taxable transactions over the ten year period ending October 5, 2011. As a result, $11 million of deferred taxes related to timberlands were not eliminated during the fourth quarter of 2001. Timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax through December 31, 2003 reduced our deferred tax liability by $0.3 million. This amount was lower than originally estimated because a significant portion of the proceeds from our timberland sales that would otherwise be subject to the built in gains tax were reinvested in like kind property. The built in gains tax can generally be avoided to the extent proceeds are reinvested in like kind property within the statutory time period. It is not possible to predict whether we will be able to identify suitable replacement properties in the future in order to avoid the built in gains tax. It is likely that actual timberland sales over the ten year built in gain period will be greater than, or less than, 5%. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, 5%. Long Term Incentive Plans Plum Creek has a Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock, dividend equivalents and value management awards. See Note 12 of the Notes to Financial Statements. During 2003, the company recognized $6 million of compensation expense associated with its long term incentive plans, of which $4 million related to value management awards. Value management awards, which have been granted every other year since 2000, provide incentive compensation to participants that is contingent upon the companys performance measured against the performance of a peer group of companies over a three year period. Value management awards are earned in whole or in part based on a sliding scale. No value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is below the 50th percentile of the peer group. The full value management award is earned if the companys total stockholder return is above the 75th percentile. Plum Creek recognizes compensation expense for value management awards based on the expected value of the award upon vesting and accrues the related expense over the vesting period. The actual expense cannot be determined until the end of the three year performance period. Furthermore, since the amount of the award, if any, is based on Plum Creeks relative performance compared to that of its peer group, it is possible to have significant changes to the estimated award value during the performance period. Compensation expense related to the value management awards is adjusted in the quarter in which there has been a material change in the expected vested value of the awards. Therefore, it is possible that an adjustment to the value management award expense may be material to the result of operations for the quarter and the year in which the estimated vested benefit is revised. The performance period for the 2000 value management awards ended on December 31, 2002. Due to the companys strong relative performance, the full value for the awards was achieved. A total expense of $9 million was recorded over the vesting period in connection with the 2000 value management award grants, of which $1 million was recorded during 2003. An expense of $2 million was recorded during 2003 and 2002 in connection with the 2002 value management award grants based on expected relative performance. The expense in connection with the 2002 value management award grants would have been $4 million during both 2003 and 2002 if we had assumed maximum performance would have been achieved for these awards. Pensions Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Participants benefits vest after five years of service. Subsequent to The Timber Company Merger, the cash balance of benefits of salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year treasury bond rate. Furthermore, employees of the company on September 1, 2000 earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or the amount of a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits of hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to the plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year and we intend to fund annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (ABO, the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plans were discontinued). The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2003 2002 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount rate (A) 6.25 % 6.75 % Rate of compensation increase (C) 4.50 % 5.00 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount rate (A) 6.75 % 7.25 % Expected long term return on plan assets (B) 7.75 % 8.25 % Rate of compensation increase (C) 4.50 % 5.00 % (A) The assumed discount rates are based on Moodys long term AA corporate bond yield, which is considered to represent the rate of return on high quality fixed income investments that, if invested at the measurement date, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the benefits when due. (B) The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. (C) The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumption for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2003 2002 Key Financial Measures Pension expense $ 5 .7 $ 3 .8 Cash contributions 6 .0 8 .4 Accrued net pension liability 2 .4 2 .8 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in pension expense for every 0.25 percentage point: decrease in long term rate of return on plan assets $ 0 .2 decrease in weighted average discount rate 0 .1 increase in rate of increase in compensation levels 0 .1 Increase in pension funding for every 0.25 percentage point decrease in weighted average discount rate $ 2 .9 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 6.25% and a 4.5% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project that our annual pension expense for 2004 will be approximately $7 million, a $1.3 million, or 23%, increase compared to 2003, and will rise to approximately $8 million annually by 2006. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy is expected to be approximately $3 million during 2004 increasing to approximately $6 million in 2006. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS, CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS The consolidated financial statements of the company reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has no relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Consequently, the company has no off balance sheet debt. Furthermore, except for certain interest rate hedging transactions in 2002, discussed more fully in Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements, and a financing in connection with certain installment notes receivable, which were transferred to Georgia Pacific prior to The Timber Company Merger, the company is not a party to any derivative transactions. Finally, the company does not have any transactions with related parties or affiliates other than those described in Note 13 of the Notes to Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2003 (in millions): Payment due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long term debt (A) $ 2,048 $ 27 $ 184 $ 290 $ 1,547 Operating lease obligations 16 3 5 3 5 Timber obligations 12 1 2 2 7 Long term incentive plans 13 4 7 2 Purchase Obligations (B) 33 25 5 1 2 Other Long Term Liabilities (C) Total Contractual Obligations $ 2,122 $ 60 $ 203 $ 298 $ 1,561 (A) Excludes unamortized premiums of $16 million at December 31, 2003. (B) Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $7 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $6 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $8 million for reforestation and silviculture, and $11 million for real estate development and other activities. (C) We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy the liabilities. Our other long term liabilities include workers compensation ($7 million) and pension ($2 million). During each of the past two years we have funded approximately $2 million for workers compensation payments and expected the same in the near future. We have made contributions to our pension plan such that the fair value of the pension plan assets at December 31, 2003 exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. As a result of this funding level, there is no pension funding obligation at December 31, 2003. EVENTS AND TRENDS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS Harvest Plans We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 105,000 to 770,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project harvest plans for a number of years. Actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors that may be outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels may be impacted by both our planned sales of non strategic and higher and better use timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 5.6 million tons during 2003 and 5.5 million tons during 2002. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2004 are expected to decrease by approximately 3%. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 13.4 million tons during 2003 and 13.8 million tons during 2002. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment in 2004 are expected to increase by approximately 3%. U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. This source of lumber was constrained in April 1996 when a five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada went into effect. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in March 2001, and soon thereafter a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. In March 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered a final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalition and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties in April 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. In May 2002, the International Trade Commission rendered a final determination that the U.S. industry was threatened with material injury by Canadian lumber imports. Following this determination, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties in May 2002. Reports indicate, however, that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports into the U.S. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. Canada appealed both the anti dumping duty and the countervailing duty to the WTO and NAFTA appeal boards. Both the WTO and NAFTA recently issued rulings that affirmed the U.S. position that Canadian stumpage practices are, in fact, providing a subsidy to the Canadian industry, and upheld the validity of antidumping duties imposed on most Canadian producers. However, both the WTO and NAFTA rulings included provisions for re examining the calculation and level of the countervailing and the anti dumping duties. These rulings required the U.S. to lower the countervailing duty, and another decision by NAFTA on this matter is expected in March of 2004, which could lead to further adjustment of either the anti dumping or countervailing duties, or both. To avoid protracted litigation, the U.S. and representatives of the Canadian government negotiated a tentative settlement agreement in December 2003. However, the Canadian federal government has not yet ratified the settlement agreement, and negotiations between the U.S. and Canada are continuing. There can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, or that the terms of any such final agreement would be favorable to the U.S. lumber industrys interests. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. Comparability of Financial Statement Periods Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During the third and fourth quarter of 2003, we acquired 139,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in South Carolina, Arkansas and New Hampshire. During the fourth quarter of 2002, we purchased 307,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Wisconsin, and on October 6, 2001, we completed our merger with The Timber Company. As a result of these acquisitions, our ownership increased to 8.1 million acres at December 31, 2003, 8.0 million acres at December 31, 2002 and 7.8 million acres at December 31, 2001 from 4.7 million acres at December 31, 2000. We may sell timberlands and facilities, from time to time, if attractive opportunities arise. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Merger with The Timber Company. On October 6, 2001, the six entities that comprised The Timber Company, formerly a separate operating group of Georgia Pacific Corporation (Georgia Pacific), merged with and into Plum Creek, with Plum Creek as the surviving company. The merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition, with The Timber Company treated as the acquirer for accounting and financial reporting purposes. As a result, the historical financial statements of The Timber Company became the financial statements of Plum Creek effective as of the date of the merger. Consequently, the statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2001 reflects the performance of The Timber Company until the date of the merger, and that of the merged companies for the remainder of 2001. See Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2003 2002 2001 Northern Resources $ 82 $ 80 $ 30 Southern Resources 216 227 187 Real Estate 47 64 59 Manufactured Products (5 ) 1 1 Other 7 7 8 Total Segment Operating Income 347 379 285 Other Cost & Eliminations (44 ) (41 ) (35 ) Operating Income $ 303 $ 338 $ 250 As a consequence of The Timber Company Merger and the related reverse acquisition accounting treatment, the financial results for 2003 and 2002 are not comparable with 2001. 2003 Compared to 2002 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $11 million, or 3%, to $309 million in 2003. This decrease was due primarily to a 12% decrease in softwood sawlog sales volume in Montana as a result of one of the worst fire season in decades, offset in part by harvesting from timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired during December 2002. Sales volume from timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired in December 2002 increased revenues by $13 million. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 27% of its revenues for 2003 and 25% for 2002. Costs and expenses decreased by $13 million, or 5%, to $227 million in 2003 due primarily to fire related harvesting curtailments and lower depletion rates, offset in part by harvesting of timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired during December 2002 and a $4 million fire loss. Costs associated with the timberland operations in Wisconsin that were acquired in December 2002 were $8 million. We recorded a $4 million fire loss as a result of forest fires during the third quarter of 2003 on approximately 45,000 acres in Montana. The $4 million loss represents the book basis of the timber volume destroyed by fire. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $22 million, or 5%, to $445 million in 2003. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales ($33 million) and a more valuable mix of logs ($7 million), offset in part by lower softwood sawlog prices ($15 million) and lower harvest volumes ($9 million). Revenues increased by $33 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. The company increased its percentage of delivered log sales by decreasing its percentage of sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. As a result, the company realizes lower margins as a percent of revenues, although operating income is not generally affected. Revenues increased by $7 million due to a greater percentage of high value logs in the 2003 sales mix than in the prior year. During 2002 the weather was extremely dry which allowed us to increase our harvest of low value pulpwood. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 6% due primarily to harvesting of smaller diameter logs and mill curtailments. The diameter of sawlogs temporarily increased during 2001 and 2002 due to the increased conversion of slow growing natural stands to faster growing plantation stands. Mills curtailed production during the first half of 2003 due to weak lumber prices. Sales volume decreased by 3% due to a planned reduction in harvest levels. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 49% of its revenues for 2003 and 54% for 2002. This decrease was due primarily to lower softwood sawlog prices and the increased percentage of delivered log sales. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $33 million, or 17%, to $229 million. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $26 million, or 27%, to $124 million in 2003. This increase of $26 million was due primarily to the sale of non strategic timberlands and a higher number of acres sold, offset in part by lower conservation easement sales. During the second quarter of 2003 we sold 29,000 acres of non strategic timberlands for $13 million. Additionally, we sold 96,000 acres of higher and better use timberlands during 2003 compared to sales of 38,000 acres during 2002. Revenues from conservation easements decreased by $20 million compared to the prior year. Real Estate Segment operating income was 38% of its revenues for 2003 and 65% for 2002. This decrease was due primarily to sales of non strategic timberlands, fewer conservation easement sales and the recording of a $5 million impairment loss. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $43 million, or 126%, to $77 million in 2003. This increase of $43 million is due primarily to the sale of non strategic timberlands, fewer sales of conservation easements and a $5 million impairment charge. During the second quarter of 2003, 29,000 acres of non strategic timberlands were sold for $13 million, which had a book basis of $22 million ($9 million of the $22 million was recorded as an impairment charge during the first quarter of 2003). We sold more acres but fewer conservation easements during 2003. No book basis is charged to cost of goods sold for sales of conservation easements. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we concluded that it was probable that 28,000 acres of non strategic timberlands would be sold during 2004 in which the book basis exceeds the fair value by $5 million. As a result, an impairment charge of $5 million was recorded. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 4%, to $397 million in 2003. This increase of $16 million was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume ($14 million) and higher plywood prices ($10 million), offset in part by lower lumber prices ($8 million). MDF sales volume increase by 20 million square feet to 198 million square feet due primarily to our new thin board mill, which began operations during the fourth quarter of 2001 and was in a start up phase during most of 2002. Plywood prices temporarily skyrocketed during the second half of 2003 due to wholesalers and distributors maintaining low structural panel inventories and housing starts continuing at unanticipated record levels. Lumber prices decreased by 5% due primarily to an industry wide excess supply of boards as a result of log salvage operations from 2002 forest fires and excess production capacity for studs and dimension lumber throughout North America. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $5 million during 2003 compared to $1 million of operating income during 2002. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to lower lumber prices and higher MDF operating costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $22 million, or 6%, to $402 million in 2003. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to higher MDF production volume and higher MDF resin and maintenance costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $44 million in 2003, compared to a decrease of $41 million in 2002. This change of $3 million was due primarily to higher corporate expenses. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $14 million, or 14%, to $117 million for 2003. This increase was due primarily to a higher debt level as the result of the acquisition of 307,000 acres of timberlands located in Wisconsin during December 2002, the acquisition of 139,000 acres in three states during the third and fourth quarters of 2003, and the purchase of 2 million shares of treasury stock during the first quarter of 2003 for $43 million. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $6 million benefit for 2003 compared to $2 million expense for 2002. This change of $8 million was due primarily to the $6 million decline in operating performance for the Manufactured Products Segment and lower sales of higher and better use timberlands through our taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2003. As a REIT, Plum Creek is generally not subject to corporate income tax except for certain transactions that are subject to built in gains tax and certain non REIT activities that are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. 2002 Compared to 2001 In order to make the 2002 and 2001 results comparable, we have excluded in the analysis below the revenues and expenses related to Plum Creeks assets and liabilities for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002. Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $184 million, or 135%, to $320 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual revenues increased by $22 million, or 16%, to $158 million in 2002. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to higher softwood sawlog sales volume as a result of the age class distribution of our Oregon Timberlands, which has an increasing percentage of mature timber. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Northern Resources Segment annual operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2002 and 22% for 2001. This increase was due primarily to higher softwood sawlog volume. Northern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $134 million, or 126%, to $240 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual costs and expenses increased by $8 million, or 8%, to $114 million. This increase of $8 million was due primarily to higher log and haul costs as a result of higher sales volume. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $104 million, or 33%, to $423 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, annual revenues increased by $63 million, or 20%, to $382 million in 2002. This increase of $63 million was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales ($37 million) and higher log sales volume ($35 million), offset in part by selling stumpage under lump sum contracts as compared to timber deeds ($8 million). Revenues increased by $37 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. The company increased its percentage of delivered log sales by decreasing its percentage of sales of standing timber. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. While revenues are higher when the seller is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. As a result, the company realizes lower margins as a percent of revenues, although operating income is not generally affected. Revenues increased by $35 million due to higher sales volume. The increased log sales volume was due primarily to a temporary (24 to 36 months) increase in harvest levels. This temporary increase resulted from accelerating the conversion of slower growing natural stands to faster growing plantations. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Southern Resources Segment annual operating income was 57% of its revenues for 2002 and 59% for 2001. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $64 million, or 48%, to $196 million. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $33 million, or 25%, to $166 million in 2002. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber and higher sales volume. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $18 million, or 23%, to $98 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues decreased by $20 million, or 25%, to $60 million. This decrease of $20 million was due primarily to the timing of real estate sales. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, the companys expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Real Estate Segment operating income was 78% of its revenues for 2002 and 74% for 2001. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of conservation easements during 2002. There is no book basis allocated to the sale of conservation easements. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $13 million, or 62%, to $34 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses decreased by $8 million, or 38%, to $13 million. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $295 million, or 343%, to $381 million in 2002. Excluding revenues (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, revenues increased by $4 million, or 5%, to $90 million. This increase of $4 million was due primarily to our new thin board MDF facility, which began operations in the fourth quarter of 2001. We sold 18 million square feet of thin board MDF during the fourth quarter of 2002 compared to 5 million square feet during the fourth quarter of 2001. Excluding the impact of The Timber Company Merger (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002), Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $5 million during 2002 compared to $1 million of operating income during 2001. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to lower lumber prices as a result of excess supply caused by over production by U.S. and Canadian mills and higher MDF operating costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $295 million, or 347%, to $380 million in 2002. Excluding costs and expenses (for the period January 1, 2002 to October 5, 2002) associated with The Timber Company Merger, costs and expenses increased by $10 million, or 12%, to $95 million. This increase of $10 million was due primarily to higher MDF production volume and higher MDF operating costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $41 million in 2002, compared to a decrease of $35 million in 2001. This change of $6 million was due primarily to $22 million of higher corporate expenses due to the increase in the size of the company, offset by a reduction of $10 million for intercompany profit elimination and $6 million for severance costs. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we incurred $6 million of merger related severance costs. Profit on intercompany log sales is deferred until the lumber and plywood manufacturing facilities convert existing log inventories into finished products and sell them to third parties. Prior to The Timber Company Merger, The Timber Company did not have any deferred profit on log sales. From the date of the merger to December 31, 2001, the company deferred profit of $9 million on intercompany log sales. The company released intercompany profit of $1 million during 2002. At December 31, 2002 the deferred profit on intercompany sales was $8 million. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $49 million, or 91%, to $103 million for 2002. This increase was due primarily to the $837 million of Plum Creeks debt that was acquired in connection with The Timber Company Merger. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $2 million for 2002 compared to a net benefit of $142 million for 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we recognized a tax benefit of $216 million in connection with The Timber Company Merger. For the period January 1, 2001 to October 5, 2001, The Timber Company recognized a tax expense of approximately $70 million. As a REIT, Plum Creek is generally not subject to corporate income tax except for certain transactions that are subject to built in gains tax and certain non REIT activities that are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. See Note 5 of the Notes to Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Net cash provided by operating activity increased by $1 million, to $369 million for 2003 compared to $368 million in 2002. Even though the cash provided by operating activity was stable, the Real Estate Segments contribution was higher in 2003 and the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments contributions were lower. We expect this trend of more cash provided by the Real Estate Segments operating activities to continue in 2004. Net cash provided by operating activity was $368 million for 2002 compared to $223 million for 2001, an increase of $145 million, or 65%. The increase of $145 million was due primarily to The Timber Company Merger. As a result, non cash operating expenses (depreciation, depletion, amortization and basis of real estate sold) increased by $60 million and cash taxes decreased by $52 million. At December 31, 2003, we had a $600 million revolving line of credit maturing on September 30, 2005. The rate for the revolving line of credit was LIBOR plus 1.5%, which included facility fees. Interest rates vary and are based on a series of borrowings with maturities that can range from one week to six months. The interest rate for the $600 million credit facility at December 31, 2003 was 2.7% including facility fees. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $600 million, including up to $50 million of standby letters of credit. As of December 31, 2003, less than $1 million remained available for borrowing under the line of credit and there were outstanding standby letters of credit of $5 million. On January 2, 2004, $248 million of the borrowings under the line of credit was repaid. On January 15, 2004, the company refinanced its revolving line of credit. The new $650 million facility has a maturity of five years. The interest rate for the new facility is based on LIBOR plus 1.25%, which includes facility fees. The company believes it has adequate liquidity based on its cash balance of $260 million at December 31, 2003, the replacement of its $600 million line of credit with a new $650 million line of credit on January 15, 2004 and expected proceeds from non strategic timberland sales during 2004. Our borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). See Note 8 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. In addition, our line of credit requires that we maintain an interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio. We were in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2003. The companys leverage strategy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the company strives to maintain an investment grade credit profile. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures, and interest and principal payments on our indebtedness for the next year. In 2006 and 2007, the company has significant long term debt principal payment requirements. The company intends to refinance these principal payments at the time of maturity. The company, however, may not refinance the entire amount and may use cash generated from operations for a portion of the principal payments. On February 2, 2004, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.35 per share for the fourth quarter of 2003. Total dividends for the fourth quarter approximated $64 million and were paid on February 27, 2004 to stockholders of record on February 13, 2004. Future dividends will be determined by our board of directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our board of directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. In October 2002, our board of directors authorized the company to buy up to $200 million of the companys outstanding common stock. During the first quarter of 2003, the company purchased two million shares of common stock for a total cost of $43 million at an average price of $21.53 per share. Capital expenditures, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, for 2003 were $84 million, $91 million for 2002 and $76 million for 2001. During 2003, we acquired 139,000 acres of timberlands for $162 million. The purchases were financed primarily using borrowings from our line of credit and $25 million of funds from tax deferred exchange transactions. In 2002, we invested $158 million for timberlands of which the largest acquisition was for approximately $141 million for 307,000 acres located primarily in Wisconsin. The $141 million purchase price was financed primarily using existing lines of credit. Planned capital expenditures for 2004, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to be approximately $84 million and include approximately $65 million for our timberlands, and $8 million for our manufacturing facilities. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Of the $84 million of planned capital expenditures in 2004, 50% are considered to be discretionary and 50% are considered maintenance expenditures. Maintenance expenditures consist primarily of reforestation and projects at our manufacturing facilities to sustain operating activities or improve safety. OTHER INFORMATION In April 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. SFAS No. 149 is intended to result in more consistent reporting of contracts as either freestanding derivative instruments subject to SFAS No. 133 in its entirety, or as hybrid instruments with debt host contracts and embedded derivative features. SFAS No. 149 amends SFAS No. 133 as a result of decisions previously made as part of the Derivatives Implementation Group process, changes made in connection with other FASB projects dealing with financial instruments, and deliberations in connection with issues raised in relation to the application of the definition of a derivative. Except for certain provisions that merely represent the codification of previous Derivatives Implementation Group decisions, which were effective immediately, the Statement is effective for contracts entered into or modified after September 30, 2003, and hedging relationships designated after September 30, 2003. We do not expect that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity. SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, except for mandatorily redeemable financial instruments of nonpublic entities. We do not expect that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. RISK FACTORS Business and Operating Risks The Cyclical Nature of Our Business Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Historical prices for logs and manufactured wood products have been volatile, and we, like other participants in the forest products industry, have limited direct influence over the time and extent of price changes for logs and wood products. The demand for logs and wood products is affected primarily by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other industrial uses. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: changes in domestic and international economic conditions; interest rates; population growth and changing demographics; and seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This results in lower revenues, profits and cash flows. In addition, industry wide increases in the supply of logs and wood products during favorable price environments can also lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. Our results of operations may also be subject to global economic changes as global supplies of wood fiber shift in response to changing economic conditions. Changes in global economic conditions that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, new timber supply sources and changes in currency exchange rates, foreign and domestic interest rates and foreign and domestic trade policies. In addition, changes in our ability to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands and timberland properties that have higher and better uses at attractive prices could have a significant effect on our results of operations. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the timing and amount of income generated by our land sales activities: general economic conditions; availability of funding for governmental agencies, developers, conservation organizations, individuals and others to purchase our lands for conservation, recreation, residential or other purposes; local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, properties sharing the same or similar characteristics as those in our portfolio; relative illiquidity of real estate investments; impact of federal, state and local land use and environmental protection laws; or changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws. The Forest Products Industry is Highly Competitive The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non wood and engineered wood products. For example, plywood markets are subject to competition from oriented strand board, and U.S. lumber and log markets are subject to competition from other worldwide suppliers. Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. This source of lumber was constrained in April 1996 when a five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada went into effect. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in March 2001, and soon thereafter a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. In March 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered a final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalition and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties in April 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. In May 2002, the International Trade Commission rendered a final determination that the U.S. industry was threatened with material injury by Canadian lumber imports. Following this determination, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties in May 2002. Reports indicate, however, that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports into the U.S. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. Canada appealed both the anti dumping duty and the countervailing duty to the WTO and NAFTA appeal boards. Both the WTO and NAFTA recently issued rulings that affirmed the U.S. position that Canadian stumpage practices are, in fact, providing a subsidy to the Canadian industry, and upheld the validity of antidumping duties imposed on most Canadian producers. However, both the WTO and NAFTA rulings included provisions for re examining the calculation and level of the countervailing and the anti dumping duties. These rulings required the U.S. to lower the countervailing duty, and another decision by NAFTA on this matter is expected in March of 2004, which could lead to further adjustment of either the anti dumping or countervailing duties, or both. To avoid protracted litigation, the U.S. and representatives of the Canadian government negotiated a tentative settlement agreement in December 2003. However, the Canadian federal government has not yet ratified the settlement agreement, and negotiations between the U.S. and Canada are continuing. There can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, or that the terms of any such final agreement would be favorable to the U.S. lumber industrys interests. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. Our Cash Dividends are Not Guaranteed and May Fluctuate In July 1999, we converted from a master limited partnership to a real estate investment trust, or REIT. REITs are required to distribute 90% of their net taxable ordinary income. However, unlike ordinary income such as rent, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, does not require REITs to distribute capital gain income. Accordingly, we do not believe that the Internal Revenue Code will require us to distribute any material amounts of cash given that the majority of our income comes from timber sales, which generally are treated as capital gains. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of the quarterly dividends to be provided to our stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands including those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. We May Be Unsuccessful in Carrying Out Our Acquisition Strategy We intend to pursue acquisitions of strategic timberland properties. As with any investment, our future acquisitions, if any, may not perform in accordance with our expectations. In addition, we anticipate financing such acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings (including offerings of limited partnership units by our operating partnership) or proceeds from asset dispositions, or any combination thereof. Our inability to finance future acquisitions on favorable terms or the failure of any acquisitions to conform to our expectations, could adversely affect our results of operations. We Depend on External Sources of Capital for Future Growth Our ability to finance growth is dependent to a significant degree on external sources of capital. Our ability to access such capital on favorable terms could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, a decline in general market conditions, increases in interest rates, an unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, a decrease in our current or estimated future earnings or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends. Any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, and the failure to obtain necessary capital could materially adversely affect our future growth. Our Ability to Harvest Timber May Be Subject to Limitations Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from our operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. In addition, the terms of our long term debt agreements and lines of credit limit our ability to fund dividends to stockholders by accelerating the harvest of significant amounts of timber. Our Timberlands and Manufacturing Facilities Are Subject to Federal and State Environmental Regulations We are subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as comparable state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. We engage in the following activities that are subject to regulation: forestry activities, including harvesting, planting and road building, use and maintenance; the generation of air emissions; the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and the generation and disposal of both hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the persons negligence or fault. These laws or future legislation or administrative or judicial action with respect to protection of the environment may adversely affect our business. The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, gray wolf, grizzly bear, bald eagle, Karner blue butterfly, red cockaded woodpecker, bull trout, and various other trout and salmon species. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other forest practices on private, federal and state land containing the affected species. Stock Ownership Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware Law May Prevent a Change in Control Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a third party from seeking to gain control of us. For example, the ownership limitations described in our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or limiting a change of control in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price. The following is a summary of provisions of our certificate of incorporation that may have this effect. Ownership Limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our certificate of incorporation prohibits ownership, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, of more than 5% of the lesser of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding or the value of the outstanding shares of our common stock by any stockholder other than by some designated persons agreed to by us or as set forth in our certificate of incorporation (the Ownership Limit). The Ownership Limit may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors. The Ownership Limit in our certificate of incorporation also restricts the transfer of our common stock. For example, any transfer of our equity is null and void if the transfer would: result in any person owning, directly or indirectly, equity in excess of the Ownership Limit; result in our equity being owned, directly or indirectly, by fewer than 100 persons; result in us being "closely held" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); result in us failing to qualify as a "domestically controlled REIT" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 75 million shares of preferred stock. Upon issuance, our board of directors will establish the preferences and rights for this preferred stock. These preferences and rights may include the right to elect additional directors. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control were in our stockholders best interests. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in business transactions with a person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the time such person or entity became an interested stockholder unless, prior to such time, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such person or entity becoming an interested stockholder. A business transaction may include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to the person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock. Tax Risks If We Fail to Qualify as a REIT, We Would Be Subject to Tax at Corporate Rates and Would Not Be Able to Deduct Dividends to Stockholders When Computing Our Taxable Income If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT: we would be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates of approximately 40%; we would not be allowed to deduct dividends to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or dividends to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, we cannot assure you that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed. If We Failed to Distribute the Earnings and Profits of The Timber Company, We Would Be Subject to Adverse Tax Consequences In connection with The Timber Companys October 6, 2001 merger with Plum Creek, we were required by January 31, 2002 to distribute the earnings and profits acquired from the six entities that comprised The Timber Company. We believe that the accelerated payment of our fourth quarter dividend for 2001, which we paid on December 28, 2001, was sufficient to distribute these earnings and profits. If we failed to distribute an amount equal to these earnings and profits, we might be subject to adverse tax consequences. We expect that, even if the earnings and profits were subsequently adjusted upward by the Internal Revenue Service, the amount we distributed exceeded such earnings and profits. Nevertheless, such an adjustment may give rise to the imposition of the 4% excise tax on the excess income required to be distributed over the amounts treated as distributed after application of the earnings and profits rule. Certain of Our Business Activities are Potentially Subject to Prohibited Transactions Tax or Corporate Level Income Tax. REITs are generally intended to be passive entities and can thus only engage in those activities permitted by the Internal Revenue Code (Code), which for Plum Creek generally include: owning and managing a timberland portfolio; growing timber; and the sale of standing timber. Accordingly, the manufacture and sale by us of wood products, certain types of timberlands sales, sales of logs, and lump sum sales of timber are conducted through one or more of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRSs) because such activities could generate non qualifying REIT income and could constitute prohibited transactions. Prohibited transactions are defined by the Code to be sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. By conducting our business in this manner we satisfy the REIT requirements of the Code and avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to our TRSs. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur. The net income of our TRSs is subject to corporate level income tax. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Approximately $1.4 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total FairValue (B) December 31, 2003 Fixed rate debt (A) $ 27 $ 27 $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 953 $ 1,434 $ 1,594 Avg. interest rate 7.6 % 7.5 % 7.4 % 7.3 % 7.4 % 7.2 % Variable rate debt (C) $ 20 $ 594 $ 614 $ 614 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total FairValue (B) December 31, 2002 Fixed rate debt (A) $27 $27 $27 $157 $123 $820 $1,181 $1,335 Avg. interest rate 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % 7.9 % 7.8 % 7.7 % Variable rate debt $599 $70 $669 $669 (A) Excludes unamortized premium of $16 million at December 31, 2003 and $22 million at December 31, 2002. (B) The increase in fair value of fixed rate debt compared to 2002 was due primarily to the issuance of $280 million in senior notes bearing interest at an average rate of 5.9%. (C) As of December 31, 2003, the interest rate on the $594 million borrowings under our revolving line of credit was 2.7%, based on LIBOR plus 1.5%, which includes facility fees. On January 15, 2004, we refinanced our revolving line of credit with a new $650 million facility maturing January 2009. The interest rate for the new facility is based on LIBOR plus 1.25%, which includes facility fees. The interest rate on the $20 million variable rate senior note borrowings due in 2008 is based on 3 months LIBOR plus 1.445%. 
 
