Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors immediately following this Item 7. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, or our failure to achieve the expected competitive advantages of operating as a REIT; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in the supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. OVERVIEW Operating Performance Operating income increased by $174 million, or 57%, to $477 million in 2004. This increase of $174 million was due primarily to higher real estate sales and record income from our manufacturing segment. Operating income from our Real Estate Segment increased by $105 million, or 223%, to $152 million. During 2003 we completed an evaluation of our timberlands and concluded that approximately two thirds of the acres we own represents core timberlands, approximately one sixth represents higher and better use timberlands and approximately one sixth represents non strategic timberlands. During 2004 we initiated a plan to sell the non strategic timberlands over the next five to ten years, as well as increase our higher and better use timberland sales. As a result, we sold 377,000 acres of timberlands in 2004 compared to selling 125,000 acres in 2003. Operating income for our Manufactured Products Segment was $58 million in 2004 compared to an operating loss of $5 million in 2003. This increase of $63 million was due primarily to exceptionally strong lumber and plywood prices as a result of record high housing starts. Housing starts during 2004 were 19 approximately 1.95 million units, which was a 5.7% increase over the 25 year record high housing starts reached during 2003. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment increased by $18 million, or 22%, to $100 million in 2004 compared to 2003, and operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $9 million, or 4%, to $207 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The improved operating performance in our Northern Resources Segment is due primarily to the increased demand for sawlogs as a result of near record high lumber and plywood prices. However, despite strong lumber and plywood prices, sawlog prices in our Southern Resources Segment generally held steady during 2004 due primarily to an ample supply of logs. Throughout our southern timberland ownership there are thousands of small private timberland owners. These small private timberland owners generally increase the number of logs they harvest whenever the demand for logs improves, which tends to mitigate any upward price pressure on our southern sawlogs. Our 2004 earnings were also impacted by a $9 million ($5 million net of tax) impairment loss for one of our lumber mills (see Critical Accounting Policies, Impairment of Long Lived Assets under this Item), and a $23 million gain on sale of properties, net of tax, from the sale of some of our coal reserves (see Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements). During the first quarter of 2005, we sold the remainder of our coal reserves for approximately $21 million in proceeds. Key Economic Factors Impacting Our Business Our operating performance is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Housing starts are impacted primarily by interest rates. Mortgage interest rates continued at historically low levels during 2004 (averaging 6.0% for the year based on a 30 year fixed rate conventional loan), which contributed to U.S. housing starts of approximately 1.95 million units during 2004, their highest level in the past 25 years. During 2004, the demand for sawlogs increased due to strong lumber and plywood prices as a result of record high housing starts. In our Southern Resources Segment, the supply of sawlogs increased in response to the increase in the demand for sawlogs. However, in our Northern Resources Segment, due to the extensive ownership of timberlands by governmental agencies there was only a limited increase in the supply of logs. During 2004, the demand for wood products increased due to exceptionally strong housing starts and an improving U.S. economy. The supply of wood products in the United States is generally limited by the amount of installed production capacity (e.g., lumber mills) in North America, and to a lesser extent the level of offshore imported wood products. Lumber and plywood prices were at near record levels during much of 2004 due to the significant increase in demand and only a modest increase in the supply of lumber and plywood. Imports of lumber and other wood products into the United States are impacted by currency exchange rates, tariffs and quotas, availability and cost of transportation, and the relative cost of manufacturing wood products. Canadian imports into the U.S. capture a significant share (approximately 35%) of the U.S. lumber market. A U.S. industry coalition believes the Canadian government, which owns most of the timberlands in Canada, provides unfair subsidies by selling timber at below market prices. Prior to 2002, a trade agreement with Canada limited imports of lumber into the United States. Since May 2002, the U.S. has imposed duties on Canadian imports. At the same time, the U.S. and Canada have been trying to reach a negotiated settlement, but to date no settlement has been reached. 20 During 2004, the U.S. dollar depreciated against most other major currencies in the world. Despite a weaker U.S. dollar, imports of wood products into the United States from Canada increased due to extremely strong lumber and plywood prices, as well as an increase in offshore imports. Core Timberlands We estimate that of our approximately 7.8 million acres of timberlands about 70% (5.5 million acres) are highly productive and strategically located near key customers and markets. We have also identified approximately 17% (1.3 million acres) of our timberlands as having values well in excess of timberland values (higher and better use timberlands). These properties are better suited for recreational, conservation or development purposes. Finally, we have identified approximately 13% (1.0 million acres) of our timberlands as being non strategic. We expect to sell our higher and better use timberlands over the next 15 years. The non strategic timberlands, which are made up of large parcels as well as smaller tracts, are expected to be sold over the next five to ten years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The capital generated from the sale of timberlands will be used for a variety of purposes, which may include strategic acquisitions of additional core timberlands, investments in our business, payments of dividends, repayments of debt and or repurchases of our stock. Harvest Levels Our operating performance is also impacted by the volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood included in our annual harvest. During 2004, we harvested a total of 18.6 million tons compared to a total of 19.0 million tons during 2003. We expect to harvest approximately 19.5 million tons during 2005. We expect the percentage mix of sawlogs and pulpwood included in our 2005 harvest to be comparable to the percentage mix we harvested during 2004. Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. The company sells timber under delivered log agreements and sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut contracts and lump sum sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller harvests the tree and delivers it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, the seller incurs the cost of logging and hauling. For the last few days of an accounting period, there are typically delivered logs for which we have not received documentation 21 and therefore have not processed the transaction in our log accounting system. For these sales, we estimate the delivered log sale information and make an accrual for these deliveries along with an accrual for the costs of logging and hauling in the appropriate accounting period. (2) Pay as Cut Contracts. Pay as cut contracts are agreements which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases an advance is received in connection with pay as cut contracts, and in other cases the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the trees are harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Along with their payment, the buyer furnishes us with supporting information for the amount of wood that has been removed. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut contract is a function of the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the agreed upon per unit price for each of type of tree on a tract of land. There is typically a lag between the time the tree is harvested and the time the buyer pays us for the tree. At the end of each accounting period, we estimate the amounts harvested under pay as cut contacts and make an accrual for the trees that have been cut but for which we have not received documentation. (3) Lump sum sale agreements. Under a lump sum sale agreement, the buyer and seller agree to a lump sum price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. Title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is cut. Therefore, revenue is recognized based on the amount of timber actually harvested, compared to total timber available to be harvested on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise, which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the trees are cut, an estimate of how much revenue to recognize each month is made based on how much volume has been removed compared to the total volume available for harvest on a tract of land according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer regarding how much volume has been removed. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the percentage of original timber harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume removed is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. Finally, for our larger lump sum contracts, which cover multiple tracts, we adjust revenues at the end of each accounting period for any known trends in the tracts that have been completely harvested. For lump sum contracts completed during the past twelve quarters, our largest quarterly adjustment to record the difference between estimated lump sum revenues and actual revenues has been $0.6 million. 22 The following tables summarize amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2004 2003 Revenues from Delivered log sales $ 563 $ 520 Pay as cut sales $ 53 $ 66 Lump sum sales $ 47 $ 53 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Accrued revenues for delivered and pay as cut log sales $ 15 $ 33 Deferred revenues for lump sum contracts $ 6 $ 4 We attempt to estimate accrued revenues at the end of each accounting period based on the best information available. We do not believe that there is a material difference between estimated accrued revenues and actual revenues. Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, a substantial portion of our timber sales consists of either pay as cut contracts or lump sum sales. Under both pay as cut contracts and lump sum sales, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs. Therefore, operating profit as a percentage of revenue is significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. Real Estate Sales We estimate that included in the companys 7.8 million acres of timberlands are approximately 1.3 million acres of higher and better use timberlands and 1.0 million acres of non strategic timberlands. The higher and better use timberlands are expected to be sold over the next 15 years for conservation, residential or recreational purposes. The non strategic timberlands, which consist of large blocks as well as smaller tracts, are expected to be sold over the next five to ten years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales, however, is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2004, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 50%. Our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage can range from 35% to 75% of revenues. Operating profit percentages vary significantly and depend upon the mix of real estate sales. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because no book basis is allocated to this type of revenue. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company Merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have low operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. In connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price 23 allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all the acres acquired, except when we can specifically identified properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. Impairment of Long Lived Assets In general, the company evaluates its ability to recover its net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, the company estimates the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The cash flows are discounted at the risk free rates of interest. Future cash flow estimates are based on probability weighted projections for a range of possible outcomes. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. The company has grown substantially through acquisitions in recent years. A large portion of the carrying value of the companys Timber and Timberlands, and Property, Plant and Equipment represents amounts of the purchase price of recent acquisitions allocated to those assets. The allocation of the purchase price in a business combination is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. The company tracks cash flows for its 7.8 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into seven geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and nine geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, the company tracks cash flows for each of its ten manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of such assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. The company uses one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of its timber and timberlands. As a result of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, the company does not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in its business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such asset exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we 24 have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2004, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $21 million. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $14 million during 2003 in connection with timberlands held for sale. See Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is probable that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful live of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized an impairment loss of $9 million in connection with one of our lumber mills due to a declining supply of logs. The availability of logs in close proximity to our mills has been declining and is expected to decline further in the future. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our other nine manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to decline and remain weak for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines more than expected, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. Depletion Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. 25 The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2004 2003 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 20 $ 23 Southern Resources Segment 46 44 Total depletion expense $ 66 $ 67 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 3.78 $ 4.16 Southern Resources Segment $ 3.47 $ 3.25 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 53 $ 58 Southern Resources Segment(A) $ 381 $ 330 Estimated future volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 281 289 Southern Resources Segment 456 441 Sensitivity of 2004 Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in depletion expense for a 10%: Increase in estimated future silviculture costs(B) Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.0 Decrease in estimated future volume(C) Northern Resources Segment $ 2.2 Southern Resources Segment $ 5.1 (A) Increase in future estimated silviculture costs is due, in part, to recent acquisitions that increased total estimated acres to receive silviculture treatments, primarily fertilization. The impact of this increase on our depletion rates was partially offset by a corresponding increase in estimated future harvest volumes related to these acquisitions. Additionally, for certain timber stands we estimated application of an additional fertilization treatment during the harvest cycle. This additional fertilization was estimated to reduce the harvest cycle length, rather than increase estimated future harvest volumes. (B) Assumes future timber volumes do not change. (C) Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. The company has invested in technology that enables it to predict its current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. 26 Deferred Income Taxes Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code commencing July 1, 1999. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level tax if it satisfies certain requirements. On October 6, 2001, The Timber Company, consisting of a group of corporate entities, merged with and into Plum Creek. As a consequence of the merger of a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, the deferred tax liabilities of The Timber Company were eliminated except for any expected transactions that would be subject to built in gains tax. Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) only if it makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in The Timber Company Merger within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax only applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the company recorded a tax benefit of $216 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of The Timber Company Merger. The benefit of $216 million represents the elimination of the deferred tax liability associated with temporary differences related primarily to timberlands that are not expected to be disposed of in a transaction subject to built in gains tax during a ten year period following the merger. We estimate that approximately 5% of The Timber Companys timberlands will be sold in one or more taxable transactions over the ten year period ending October 5, 2011. As a result, $11 million of deferred taxes related to timberlands were not eliminated during the fourth quarter of 2001. Timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax through December 31, 2004, reduced our deferred tax liability by $0.6 million. This amount was lower than originally estimated because a significant portion of the proceeds from our timberland sales that would otherwise be subject to the built in gains tax were reinvested in like kind property. The built in gains tax can generally be avoided to the extent proceeds are reinvested in like kind property within the statutory time period. It is not possible to predict whether we will be able to identify suitable replacement properties in the future in order to avoid the built in gains tax. It is likely that actual timberland sales over the ten year built in gain period will be greater than, or less than, 5%. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, 5%. Long Term Incentive Plans Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, dividend equivalents and value management awards. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. During 2004, the company recognized $13 million of compensation expense associated with its long term incentive plans, of which $6 million related to value management awards. Value management awards provide incentive compensation to participants that is contingent upon the companys performance measured against the performance of a peer group over a three year period. Value management awards are earned in whole or in part based on a sliding scale. No value management award is earned if the companys total shareholder return is below the 50th percentile of the peer group. The full value management award is earned if the companys total shareholder return is above the 75th percentile. Plum Creek recognizes compensation expense for value management awards based on the expected value of the award upon vesting and accrues the related expense over the vesting period. The actual expense cannot be determined until the end of the three year performance period. Furthermore, since the amount of the award, if any, is based on Plum Creeks relative performance compared to that of its peer group, it is possible to have significant changes to the estimated award value during the performance period. Compensation expense related to the value management awards is adjusted in the quarter in which 27 there has been a material change in the expected vested value of the awards. Therefore, it is possible that an adjustment to the value management award expense may be material to the result of operations for the quarter and the year in which the estimated vested benefit is revised. The performance period for the 2002 value management awards ended on December 31, 2004. Due to the companys strong relative performance, awards valued at $9 million in the aggregate vested at December 31, 2004. The company recorded compensation expense in connection with the 2002 grants of $5 million, $2 million, and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. During 2004, the company recorded compensation expense of $1 million in connection with the 2004 grants of value management awards. The 2004 estimated expense was based on the assumption that the company would achieve target performance at the end of the three year performance period. If we had assumed maximum performance at the end of the performance period, the 2004 expense would have been $3 million. Pensions Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and several supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits generally vest after five years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year treasury bond rate. Furthermore, employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits of hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. Furthermore, we intend to fund our qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (ABO, the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plans. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2004 2003 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount rate(A) 5.75 % 6.25 % Rate of compensation increase(C) 3.70 % 4.50 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount rate 6.25 % 6.75 % Expected long term return on plan assets(B) 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of compensation increase(C) 3.70 % 4.50 % (A) The December 31, 2004 discount rates were determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2004, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2004. 28 (B) The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. (C) The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumption for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2004 2003 Key Financial Measures Pension expense $ 7 $ 6 Cash pension plan contributions qualified plan 9 5 Cash grantor trust funding supplemental plans 1 1 Unfunded accrued pension cost 14 14 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in pension expense for every 0.25 percentage point: decrease in long term rate of return on plan assets $ 0.2 decrease in weighted average discount rate 0.3 increase in rate of increase in compensation levels 0.1 Increase in qualified pension funding for every 0.25 percentage point decrease in weighted average discount rate $ 3.7 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 5.75% and a 3.7% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project that our pension expense for 2005 through 2007 will be approximately $9 million annually, compared to $7 million in 2004. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy for the qualified pension plan is expected to be approximately $3 million during 2005, increasing to approximately $6 million in 2008. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS, CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS The consolidated financial statements of the company reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has no relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Consequently, the company has no off balance sheet debt. Furthermore, except for certain interest rate hedging transactions in 2002, discussed more fully in Note 9 of the Notes to Financial Statements, the company is not a party to any derivative transactions. 29 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2004 (in millions): Payment due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt(A) $ 1,875 $ 27 $ 280 $ 815 $ 753 Operating lease obligations 12 3 4 3 2 Timber obligations 12 1 2 2 7 Long term incentive plans 18 11 5 2 Purchase Obligations(B) 37 26 8 1 2 Other Long Term Liabilities(C) Total Contractual Obligations $ 1,954 $ 68 $ 299 $ 823 $ 764 (A) Excludes unamortized premiums of $10 million at December 31, 2004. (B) Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $12 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $12 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $6 million for reforestation and silviculture, and $4 million for real estate development and other activities. (C) We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2004, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $7 million, deferred compensation obligations of $14 million and non qualified pension obligations of $15 million. During each of the past two years we have funded approximately $2 million for workers compensation payments and expected the same in the near future. We have made contributions to our qualified pension plan such that the fair value of the pension plan assets at December 31, 2004, exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. As a result of this funding level, there are no qualified pension funding obligations at December 31, 2004. We have several grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2004, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trust is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $14 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2004, the fair value of assets in another grantor trust is approximately equal to the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans of $15 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. See Notes 8 and 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. EVENTS AND TRENDS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS Harvest Plans We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 105,000 to 770,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors that may be outside of our control. We believe that 30 our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels may be impacted by both our planned sales of non strategic and higher and better use timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 5.2 million tons during 2004 and 5.6 million tons during 2003. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2005 are expected to increase by approximately 2%. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 13.3 million tons during 2004 and 13.4 million tons during 2003. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment in 2005 are expected to increase by approximately 7%. U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. This source of lumber was constrained in April 1996 when a five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada went into effect. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in March 2001, and soon thereafter a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. In March 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered a final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalition and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties in April 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. In May 2002, the International Trade Commission rendered a final determination that the U.S. industry was threatened with material injury from Canadian lumber imports. Following this determination, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties in May 2002. Reports indicate, however, that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports share of the U.S. market. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. Canada appealed both the anti dumping duty and the countervailing duty to the WTO and NAFTA appeal boards. Both the WTO and NAFTA issued initial rulings that affirmed the U.S. position that Canadian stumpage practices are, in fact, providing a subsidy to the Canadian industry, and upheld the validity of antidumping duties imposed on most Canadian producers. Both the WTO and NAFTA rulings also included provisions for re examining the calculation and level of the countervailing and the anti dumping duties. In its most recent administrative review ruling in December 2004, the Department of Commerce recalculated the countervailing duty rate to 16.4% and the anti dumping duty rate to 3.8%, for a combined duty of 20.2%. On April 30, 2004, NAFTA ruled that the International Trade Commissions determination of injury to U.S. industry from Canadian lumber imports, which is the basis for imposing the duties, was not supported with substantial evidence. The commission unsuccessfully appealed this decision, and was directed to issue a no injury opinion, which was rendered in September 2004. The U.S. Trade Representative responded by calling for the formation of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee under the NAFTA dispute resolution process to evaluate the NAFTA panels injury decision. A panel was formed to hear the challenge, and arguments before the panel are expected to take place in March of 2005, and no decision is expected from the panel before the end of April 2005. 31 To avoid protracted litigation, the U.S. and representatives of the Canadian government continue to pursue a settlement agreement. However, there can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, or that the terms of any such final agreement would be favorable to the U.S. lumber industrys interests. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, the downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase, particularly during periods of weak lumber demand. Comparability of Financial Statement Periods Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During 2004, we acquired 78,000 acres of timberlands located in Arkansas and Maine. During 2003, we acquired 139,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in South Carolina, Arkansas and New Hampshire. During 2002, we purchased 307,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Wisconsin. We sold approximately 377,000 acres of timberlands in 2004, 125,000 in 2003, and 37,000 in 2002. As a result of these timberland acquisitions and dispositions, our ownership was 7.8 million acres at December 31, 2004, 8.1 million acres at December 31, 2003, and 8.0 million acres at December 31, 2002. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2004 2003 2002 Northern Resources $ 100 $ 82 $ 80 Southern Resources 207 216 227 Real Estate 152 47 64 Manufactured Products 58 (5 ) 1 Other 9 7 7 Gain on Sale of Other Assets 5 Total Segment Operating Income 531 347 379 Other Costs & Eliminations (54 ) (44 ) (41 ) Operating Income $ 477 $ 303 $ 338 2004 Compared to 2003 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 5%, to $325 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog prices ($27 million) and higher pulpwood prices ($9 million), offset in part by lower sawlog sales volume ($23 million). Sawlog prices increased by 12% due primarily to strong lumber and plywood markets, good hardwood specialty demand, and a limited supply of logs. Pulpwood prices increased by 17% due primarily to a shortage of logging contractors and low mill fiber inventories. Sawlog sales volume decreased by 9% due primarily to a planned reduction in harvest levels. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 31% of its revenues for 2004 and 27% for 2003. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog and pulpwood prices, offset in part by higher log and haul costs. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $2 million, or 1%, to $225 million in 2004. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($9 million) and as a result of no fire loss during 2004 compared to a $4 million fire loss in 2003, offset in part by higher log and haul cost ($10 million). Log and haul costs increased by 7% on a per ton basis due primarily to higher fuel costs, longer hauling distances and a shortage of logging contractors. 32 Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $14 million, or 3%, to $459 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Under its delivered log sale agreements, the company is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. While revenues are higher when the company is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. As a result, the company realizes lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, although operating income is not generally affected. Despite strong lumber and plywood prices during most of 2004, sawlog prices generally held steady due to an abundant supply of logs. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 45% of its revenues for 2004 and 49% for 2003. This decrease was due primarily to the increased percentage of delivered log sales and higher fuel costs. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $23 million, or 10%, to $252 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber and higher fuel costs. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $179 million to $303 million in 2004. This increase is due primarily to an increase in land sales activity as the company executes its strategy of selling higher and better use timberlands and non strategic timberlands. During 2004, we sold approximately 255,000 acres of large, non strategic timberlands for $133 million compared to 29,000 acres for $13 million in 2003. During 2004 we sold approximately 120,000 acres of higher and better use timberlands and small parcels of non strategic timberlands for $170 million compared to 96,000 acres for $111 million in 2003. We estimate that included in the companys 7.8 million acres of timberlands are approximately 1.3 million acres of higher and better use timberlands and 1.0 million acres of non strategic timberlands. The higher and better use timberlands are expected to be sold over the next 15 years for conservation, residential or recreational purposes. The non strategic timberlands, which consist of large blocks as well as smaller tracts, are expected to be sold over the next five to ten years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales, however, is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. We expect higher and better use timberland and small parcel, non strategic timberland revenues to increase 20% to 40% during 2005 compared to 2004. The sale of large, non strategic timberlands are difficult to forecast. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. Real Estate Segment operating income was 50% of its revenues for 2004, compared to 38% for 2003. This increase was due primarily to selling a higher percentage of low basis timberlands during 2004 compared to 2003. See Critical Accounting Policies, Real Estate Sales under this Item. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $74 million to $151 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to large, non strategic timberlands transactions ($42 million) and the increase in land sales activity associated with higher and better use timberlands and small parcels of non strategic timberlands. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $121 million, or 30%, to $518 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to higher lumber prices ($41 million), higher plywood prices ($36 million) and higher MDF sales volume ($24 million). Lumber prices increased by 27% due primarily to exceptionally strong housing starts during 2004 on top of 25 year record high housing starts during 2003, limited log availability and transportation issues. Housing starts for 2004 were 6% higher than housing starts during 2003. Log availability was limited during the first half of 2004 as a result of severe forest fires in the Western United States and Canada during the second half of 2003. Also favorably impacting lumber prices were inventory shortages during most of 2004 as a result of rail transportation delays. However, commodity lumber prices peaked in August and have since declined by approximately 10%. Plywood prices increased by 33% due primarily to near record high structural panel (plywood and oriented strand board) 33 prices and strong industrial demand. Structural panel prices were at near record high levels during the first six months of 2004 as a result of exceptionally strong housing starts and low field inventories at the beginning of the year. Wholesalers and distributors continued their just in time buying pattern during 2003, and as a result, field inventories were not sufficient to meet exceptionally strong demand during the first half of 2004. Industrial demand (boats, recreational vehicles, trailers, etc.) has strengthened due to the improving U.S. economy. However, commodity plywood prices peaked during second quarter of 2004 and have since declined by approximately 28%. MDF sales volume increased by 24% due primarily to resolving all major start up issues associated with our new MDF thin board line, which operated near its projected design capacity during 2004. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was $58 million for 2004, compared to an operating loss of $5 million for 2003. This $63 million improvement in operating performance was due primarily to higher lumber and plywood prices and higher MDF sales volume, offset in part by an impairment loss of $9 million related to a lumber facility. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $58 million, or 14%, to $460 million in 2004. This increase in costs was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume, higher lumber raw material costs, and an impairment loss of $9 million to write down the manufacturing assets at a lumber facility. Other Costs and Eliminations / Gain on Sale of Other Assets. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $54 million in 2004, compared to a decrease of $44 million in 2003. This difference of $10 million was due primarily to an increase in corporate expenses. Corporate expenses have increased due primarily to higher costs for long term incentive plans of $6 million (see Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements) and higher regulatory costs of $2 million. Since 2001, Plum Creek had been a party to a joint operating agreement with Geomet, Inc., a coalbed methane developer, with whom the company jointly explored for and developed coal bed methane gas found on certain of its timberlands in West Virginia and Virginia. During the second quarter of 2004, the company sold its working interest in the joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. for $27 million and recorded a gain of $5 million. Plum Creek retained its royalty interest in the project. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was a $27 million expense for 2004, compared to a $6 million benefit for 2003. This change of $33 million was due primarily to the $63 million improvement in the operating performance for the Manufactured Products Segment and a $5 million gain on the sale of our working interest in a joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and as such, is generally not subject to corporate level income tax. However, the company conducts certain non REIT activities through various taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are subject to corporate level income tax. These activities include our manufacturing operations, the harvesting and selling of logs, and sales of some of our higher and better use timberlands. See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. In December 2004, Plum Creek sold substantially all of its subsurface property rights (primarily coal reserves, excluding coal bed methane, oil and gas reserves) in Buchanan County, Virginia. The company received proceeds of $23 million in connection with the sale and the release of certain legal claims, which the company believes comprised a portion of the proceeds. However, the sale agreement did not specify an allocation. The net gain from this sale and settlement of certain legal claims, after reducing the proceeds for applicable book basis and income taxes, was $23 million. 2003 Compared to 2002 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $11 million, or 3%, to $309 million in 2003. This decrease was due primarily to a 12% decrease in softwood sawlog sales volume in Montana as a result of 34 one of the worst fire season in decades, offset in part by harvesting from timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired during December 2002. Sales volume from timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired in December 2002 increased revenues by $13 million. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 27% of its revenues for 2003 and 25% for 2002. Costs and expenses decreased by $13 million, or 5%, to $227 million in 2003 due primarily to fire related harvesting curtailments and lower depletion rates, offset in part by a $4 million fire loss and by harvesting of timberlands in Wisconsin that were acquired during December 2002. Costs associated with the timberland operations in Wisconsin that were acquired in December 2002 were $8 million. We recorded a $4 million fire loss as a result of forest fires during the third quarter of 2003 on approximately 45,000 acres in Montana. The $4 million loss represents the book basis of the timber volume destroyed by fire. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $22 million, or 5%, to $445 million in 2003. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales ($33 million) and a more valuable mix of logs ($7 million), offset in part by lower softwood sawlog prices ($15 million) and lower harvest volumes ($9 million). Revenues increased by $33 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. The company increased its percentage of delivered log sales by decreasing its percentage of sales of standing timber. Revenues increased by $7 million due to a greater percentage of high value logs in the 2003 sales mix than in the prior year. During 2002 the weather was extremely dry which allowed us to increase our harvest of low value pulpwood. Softwood sawlog prices decreased by 6% due primarily to harvesting of smaller diameter logs and mill curtailments. The diameter of sawlogs temporarily increased during 2001 and 2002 due to the increased conversion of slow growing natural stands to faster growing plantation stands. Mills curtailed production during the first half of 2003 due to weak lumber prices. Sales volume decreased by 3% due to a planned reduction in harvest levels. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 49% of its revenues for 2003 and 54% for 2002. This decrease was due primarily to lower softwood sawlog prices and the increased percentage of delivered log sales. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $33 million, or 17%, to $229 million. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $26 million, or 27%, to $124 million in 2003. This increase of $26 million was due primarily to the sale of non strategic timberlands and a higher number of acres sold, offset in part by lower conservation easement sales. During the second quarter of 2003 we sold 29,000 acres of non strategic timberlands for $13 million. Additionally, we sold 96,000 acres of higher and better use timberlands during 2003 compared to sales of 38,000 acres during 2002. Revenues from conservation easements decreased by $20 million compared to the prior year. Real Estate Segment operating income was 38% of its revenues for 2003 and 65% for 2002. This decrease was due primarily to sales of non strategic timberlands, fewer conservation easement sales and the recording of a $5 million impairment loss. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $43 million, or 126%, to $77 million in 2003. This increase of $43 million is due primarily to the sale of non strategic timberlands, fewer sales of conservation easements and a $5 million impairment loss. During the second quarter of 2003, we sold 29,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which had a book basis of $22 million, for $13 million ($9 million of the $22 million was recorded as an impairment loss during the first quarter of 2003). We sold more acres but fewer conservation easements during 2003. No book basis is charged to cost of goods sold for sales of conservation easements. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we concluded that it was probable that 28,000 acres of non strategic timberlands would be sold during 2004 in 35 which the book basis exceeds the fair value by $5 million. As a result, an impairment loss of $5 million was recorded. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 4%, to $397 million in 2003. This increase of $16 million was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume ($14 million) and higher plywood prices ($10 million), offset in part by lower lumber prices ($8 million). The MDF sales volume increased by 20 million square feet to 198 million square feet, due primarily to our new thin board line, which began operations during the fourth quarter of 2001 and was in a start up phase during most of 2002. Plywood prices temporarily skyrocketed during the second half of 2003 due to wholesalers and distributors maintaining low structural panel inventories and housing starts continuing at unanticipated record levels. Lumber prices decreased by 5% due primarily to an industry wide excess supply of boards as a result of log salvage operations from 2002 forest fires and excess production capacity for studs and dimension lumber throughout North America. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $5 million during 2003 compared to $1 million of operating income during 2002. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to lower lumber prices and higher MDF operating costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $22 million, or 6%, to $402 million in 2003. This increase of $22 million was due primarily to higher MDF production volume and higher MDF resin and maintenance costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $44 million in 2003, compared to a decrease of $41 million in 2002. This change of $3 million was due primarily to higher corporate expenses. Interest Expense. Net interest expense increased by $14 million, or 14%, to $117 million for 2003. This increase was due primarily to a higher debt level as the result of the acquisition of 307,000 acres of timberlands located in Wisconsin during December 2002, the acquisition of 139,000 acres in three states during the third and fourth quarters of 2003, and the purchase of 2 million shares of treasury stock during the first quarter of 2003 for $43 million. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $6 million benefit for 2003 compared to $2 million expense for 2002. This change of $8 million was due primarily to the $6 million decline in operating performance for the Manufactured Products Segment and lower sales of higher and better use timberlands through our taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2003. As a REIT, Plum Creek is generally not subject to corporate income tax except for certain transactions that are subject to built in gains tax and certain non REIT activities that are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2004, totaled $600 million, compared to $372 million in 2003. The increase of $228 million was due primarily to a $179 million increase in revenues from timberland sales (which includes $133 million of revenues from sales of large, non strategic timberlands, which was used to repay debt), and a $63 million improvement in operating income from our manufacturing facilities. Net cash provided by operating activity increased by $3 million, to $372 million for 2003 compared to $369 million in 2002. Even though the cash provided by operating activity was stable, the Real Estate Segments contribution was higher in 2003 and the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments contributions were lower. 36 In August of 2004, the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement under which the company from time to time may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees up to a total amount of $400 million and under which Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership, may from time to time offer and sell debt securities up to an additional total amount of $400 million. As of December 31, 2004, the entire amounts for issuance of equity and debt securities remained available under the shelf registration statement. In January of 2004, the company refinanced its revolving line of credit with a new $650 million facility maturing on January 15, 2009. As of December 31, 2004, the interest rate for the new facility was LIBOR plus 0.875%, which included facility fees. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.625% depending on our financial results. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $650 million, including up to $50 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily, based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2004, we had $448 million of borrowings and $6 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $196 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 7, 2005, $348 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. Our borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. Furthermore, our line of credit requires that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We were in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2004. The companys financial policy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures, and interest and principal payments on our indebtedness for the next year. In 2006 and 2007, the company has significant long term debt principal payment requirements. The company intends to refinance these principal payments at the time of maturity. The company, however, may not refinance the entire amount and may use cash generated from operations for a portion of the principal payments. 37 On February 10, 2005, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.38 per share, or approximately $70 million, which will be paid on March 8, 2005, to stockholders of record on February 22, 2005. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. In October of 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase up to $200 million of the companys common stock. As of December 31, 2004, the company had repurchased approximately 2 million shares of common stock for a total cost of $43 million at an average price of $21.53 per share. Capital expenditures, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, for 2004 were $70 million, compared to $84 million for 2003 and $91 million for 2002. During 2004, Plum Creek acquired approximately 78,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Arkansas and Maine for $66 million. The purchases were financed using available funds from operations and $56 million of funds from tax deferred exchange transactions. During 2003, we acquired 139,000 acres of timberlands for $162 million, financed primarily using $140 million funds from tax deferred exchange transactions and borrowings from our line of credit. Planned capital expenditures for 2005, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $90 million and $100 million and include approximately $69 million for our timberlands, and $11 million for our manufacturing facilities. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Of planned capital expenditures in 2005, approximately 60% are considered to be discretionary and 40% are considered maintenance expenditures. Discretionary expenditures consist primarily of silviculture investments and to a lesser extent land development investments. Maintenance expenditures consist primarily of reforestation and projects at our manufacturing facilities to sustain operating activities or improve safety. OTHER INFORMATION In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. SFAS No. 123(R) must be adopted no later than July 1, 2005. Early adoption will be permitted in periods in which financial statements have not yet been issued. We expect to adopt SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005. The company adopted the fair value based method of accounting for share based payments effective January 1, 2002, using the prospective method described in SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. Currently, the company uses the Black Scholes Merton formula to estimate the value of stock options granted to employees and expects to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model upon the required adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005. SFAS No. 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in 38 periods after adoption. While the company cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future (because they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options), the amounts of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions were immaterial. In addition to stock options, the company may also grant dividend equivalents and value management awards, a portion of which may be payable in the companys stock. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. The company is in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have on the financial statements. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The new Statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. Management does not expect that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. SFAS No. 153 is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Opinion No. 29 provided an exception to its basic measurement principle, fair value, for exchanges of similar production assets. Under Opinion No. 29, an exchange of a productive asset was based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished. The FASB eliminated this exception and replaced it with an exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. The FASB believes this Statement produces financial reporting that more faithfully represents the economics of nonmonetary asset exchange transactions. The new Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. Management does not expect that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. RISK FACTORS Business and Operating Risks The Cyclical Nature of Our Business Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Historical prices for logs and manufactured wood products have been volatile, and we, like other participants in the forest products industry, have limited direct influence over the time and extent of price changes for logs and wood products. The demand for logs and wood products is affected primarily by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other industrial uses. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: changes in domestic and international economic conditions; interest rates; population growth and changing demographics; and seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This results in lower revenues, profits and cash flows. In addition, industry wide increases in the supply of logs and wood products during favorable price environments can also lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during 39 favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. Our results of operations may also be subject to global economic changes as global supplies of wood fiber shift in response to changing economic conditions. Changes in global economic conditions that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, new timber supply sources and changes in currency exchange rates, foreign and domestic interest rates and foreign and domestic trade policies. In addition, changes in our ability to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands and timberland properties that have higher and better uses at attractive prices could have a significant effect on our results of operations. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the timing and amount of our income generated by our land sales: general economic conditions; availability of funding for governmental agencies, developers, conservation organizations, individuals and others to purchase our timberlands for conservation, recreation, residential or other purposes; local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, properties sharing the same or similar characteristics as those in our portfolio; relative illiquidity of real estate investments; impact of federal, state and local land use and environmental protection laws; or changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws. The Forest Products Industry is Highly Competitive The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non wood and engineered wood products. For example, plywood markets are subject to competition from oriented strand board, and U.S. lumber and log markets are subject to competition from other worldwide suppliers. Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. This source of lumber was constrained in April 1996 when a five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada went into effect. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in March 2001, and soon thereafter a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. In March 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered a final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalition and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties in April 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively. In May 2002, the International Trade Commission rendered a final determination that the U.S. industry was threatened with material injury from Canadian lumber imports. Following this determination, the Department of Commerce put into effect the countervailing and anti dumping duties in May 2002. Reports indicate, however, that the final duties have not had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports share of the U.S. market. 40 The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. Canada appealed both the anti dumping duty and the countervailing duty to the WTO and NAFTA appeal boards. Both the WTO and NAFTA issued initial rulings that affirmed the U.S. position that Canadian stumpage practices are, in fact, providing a subsidy to the Canadian industry, and upheld the validity of antidumping duties imposed on most Canadian producers. Both the WTO and NAFTA rulings also included provisions for re examining the calculation and level of the countervailing and the anti dumping duties. In its most recent administrative review ruling in December 2004, the Department of Commerce recalculated the countervailing duty rate to 16.4% and the anti dumping duty rate to 3.8%, for a combined duty of 20.2%. On April 30, 2004, NAFTA ruled that the International Trade Commissions determination of injury to U.S. industry from Canadian lumber imports, which is the basis for imposing the duties, was not supported with substantial evidence. The commission unsuccessfully appealed this decision, and was directed to issue a no injury opinion, which was rendered in September 2004. The U.S. Trade Representative responded by calling for the formation of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee under the NAFTA dispute resolution process to evaluate the NAFTA panels injury decision. A panel was formed to hear the challenge, and arguments before the panel are expected to take place in March of 2005, and no decision is expected from the panel before the end of April 2005. To avoid protracted litigation, the U.S. and representatives of the Canadian government continue to pursue a settlement agreement. However, there can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, or that the terms of any such final agreement would be favorable to the U.S. lumber industrys interests. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, the downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase, particularly during periods of weak lumber demand. Our Cash Dividends are Not Guaranteed and May Fluctuate We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Generally, REITs are required to distribute 90% of their taxable income. However, REITs are required to distribute only their ordinary taxable income and not their net capital gains income. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are required to distribute material amounts of cash given that substantially all our taxable income is treated as capital gains income. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of the quarterly dividends to be provided to our stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands including those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. We May Be Unsuccessful in Carrying Out Our Acquisition Strategy We intend to pursue acquisitions of strategic timberland properties. As with any investment, our future acquisitions, if any, may not perform in accordance with our expectations. In addition, we anticipate financing such acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings (including offerings of limited partnership units by our operating partnership) or proceeds from asset dispositions, or any combination thereof. Our inability to finance future acquisitions on favorable terms or the failure of any acquisitions to conform to our expectations, could adversely affect our results of operations. 41 We Depend on External Sources of Capital for Future Growth Our ability to finance growth is dependent to a significant degree on external sources of capital. Our ability to access such capital on favorable terms could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, a decline in general market conditions, increases in interest rates, an unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, a decrease in our current or estimated future earnings or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends. Any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, and the failure to obtain necessary capital could materially adversely affect our future growth. Our Ability to Harvest Timber May Be Subject to Limitations Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations, availability of contract loggers, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and other natural disasters. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from our operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. In addition, the terms of our long term debt agreements and lines of credit limit our ability to fund dividends to stockholders by accelerating the harvest of significant amounts of timber. Our Timberlands and Manufacturing Facilities Are Subject to Federal and State Environmental Regulations We are subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as comparable state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties. We engage in the following activities that are subject to regulation: forestry activities, including harvesting, planting and road building, use and maintenance; the generation of air emissions; the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and the generation and disposal of both hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the persons negligence or fault. These laws or future legislation or administrative or judicial action with respect to protection of the environment may adversely affect our business. 42 The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other forest practices on private, federal and state land containing the affected species. Stock Ownership Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware Law May Prevent a Change in Control Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a third party from seeking to gain control of us. For example, the ownership limitations described in our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or limiting a change of control in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price. The following is a summary of provisions of our certificate of incorporation that may have this effect. Ownership Limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our certificate of incorporation prohibits ownership, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, of more than 5% of the lesser of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding or the value of the outstanding shares of our common stock by any stockholder other than by some designated persons agreed to by us or as set forth in our certificate of incorporation (the Ownership Limit). The Ownership Limit may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. The Ownership Limit in our certificate of incorporation also restricts the transfer of our common stock. For example, any transfer of our equity is null and void if the transfer would: result in any person owning, directly or indirectly, equity in excess of the Ownership Limit; result in our equity being owned, directly or indirectly, by fewer than 100 persons; result in us being closely held (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); result in us failing to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 75 million shares of preferred stock. Upon issuance, our Board of Directors will establish the preferences and rights for this preferred stock. These preferences and rights may include the right to elect additional directors. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control were in our stockholders best interests. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in business transactions with a person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the time such person or entity became an interested stockholder unless, prior to such time, our Board of Directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such person or entity becoming an interested stockholder. A business transaction may include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to the person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock. 43 Tax Risks If We Fail to Qualify as a REIT, We Would Be Subject to Tax at Corporate Rates and Would Not Be Able to Deduct Dividends to Stockholders When Computing Our Taxable Income If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT: we would be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates of approximately 40%; we would not be allowed to deduct dividends to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or dividends to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, we cannot assure you that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed. If We Failed to Distribute the Earnings and Profits of The Timber Company, We Would Be Subject to Adverse Tax Consequences In connection with The Timber Companys October 6, 2001, merger with Plum Creek, we were required by January 31, 2002, to distribute the earnings and profits acquired from the six entities that comprised The Timber Company. We believe that the accelerated payment of our fourth quarter dividend for 2001, which we paid on December 28, 2001, was sufficient to distribute these earnings and profits. If we failed to distribute an amount equal to these earnings and profits, we might be subject to adverse tax consequences. We expect that, even if the earnings and profits were subsequently adjusted upward by the Internal Revenue Service, the amount we distributed exceeded such earnings and profits. Nevertheless, such an adjustment may give rise to the imposition of the 4% excise tax on the excess income required to be distributed over the amounts treated as distributed after application of the earnings and profits rule. Certain of Our Business Activities are Potentially Subject to Prohibited Transactions Tax or Corporate Level Income Tax. REITs are generally intended to be passive entities and can thus only engage in those activities permitted by the Internal Revenue Code, which for Plum Creek generally include: owning and managing a timberland portfolio; growing timber; and the sale of standing timber. Accordingly, the manufacture and sale by us of wood products, certain types of timberlands sales and sales of logs are conducted through one or more of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRSs) because such activities could generate non qualifying REIT income and could constitute prohibited transactions. Prohibited transactions are defined by the 44 Internal Revenue Code to be sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. By conducting our business in this manner we satisfy the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to our TRSs. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur. The net income of our TRSs is subject to corporate level income tax. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Approximately $1.4 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 There after Total Fair Value(B) December 31, 2004 Fixed rate debt Principal due(A) $ 27 $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 753 $ 1,407 $ 1,541 Avg. interest rate 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.4 % 7.5 % 7.3 % 7.1 % Variable rate debt(C) $ 20 $ 448 $ 468 $ 468 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 There after Total Fair Value(B) December 31, 2003 Fixed rate debt Principal due(A) $ 27 $ 27 $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 953 $ 1,434 $ 1,594 Avg. interest rate 7.6 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.4 % 7.5 % 7.2 % Variable rate debt $ 20 $ 594 $ 614 $ 614 (A) Excludes unamortized premium of $10 million at December 31, 2004, and $16 million at December 31, 2003. (B) The decrease in the fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to 2003 was due primarily to an increase in market interest rates for long term debt and the repayment of $27 million of borrowings during 2004. (C) As of December 31, 2004, the average interest rate on the $448 million borrowings under our $650 million revolving line of credit maturing on January 15, 2009, was based on LIBOR plus 0.875%, which included facility fees. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.625% depending on our financial results. As of January 7, 2005, $348 million of variable rate debt was repaid. The interest rate on the $20 million variable rate senior note borrowings due in 2008 is based on 3 month LIBOR plus 1.445%. 45 
 
