ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview OPERATING PERFORMANCE Operating income decreased by $29 million, or 6%, to $448 million in 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower income from our Manufactured Products Segment. Operating income for our Manufactured Products Segment decreased by $28 million, or 48%, to $30 million in 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices and higher manufacturing costs. Despite record high housing starts in 2005, lumber and plywood prices declined due to increased supply (increased production in the United States and higher imports). Manufacturing costs increased due primarily to higher costs for logs and energy. During 2004, we recorded a $9 million impairment loss related to one of our lumber mills. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment increased by $2 million to $102 million. This increase was due primarily to a 3% increase in sawlog prices and a 3% increase in harvest volume, largely offset by higher log & haul cost. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment increased by $14 million, or 7%, to $221 million. This increase was due primarily to a 4% increase in harvest volume and a 3% increase in sawlog prices, partially offset by higher log & haul cost. Operating income from our Real Estate Segment decreased by $12 million, or 8%, to $140 million. This decrease was due primarily to fewer acres sold in 2005 compared to 2004. Our 2005 operating income was significantly impacted by rising energy costs. The increase in energy costs has resulted in higher costs associated with logging our timberlands, hauling our logs to customers and running our manufacturing facilities. The higher energy costs decreased our operating income in our Southern Resources Segment by $10 million, in our Northern Resources Segment by $9 million and in our Manufactured Products Segment by $5 million. Our 2005 earnings were also impacted by a $23 million gain on sale of properties, net of tax, primarily related to the sale of our remaining coal reserves (see Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements) and a $5 million tax benefit related to the remeasurement of our deferred income tax liability (see Note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements). TWENTY ONE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 During the fourth quarter of 2005, we acquired 650,000 acres of timberland in Michigan for $345 million. This acquisition was financed partially by the issuance of $300 million senior notes due 2015. As a result of this acquisition and the related financing, we expect operating income in our Northern Resources Segment to increase between $10 million and $15 million and we expect interest expense to increase by $14 million. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS Our operating performance is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Housing starts are impacted primarily by interest rates. Mortgage interest rates continued at historically low levels during 2005 (averaging 6.1% for the year based on a 30 year fixed rate conventional loan), which contributed to U.S. housing starts of approximately 2.06 million units during 2005, their highest level in the last 25 years. However, the number of housing starts is expected to decline during 2006. Thirty year fixed rate interest rates have generally been increasing in recent months and are expected to reach 6.5% by the end of 2006. Additionally, the number of houses and condominiums on the market at December 31, 2005 has increased by 26% over the prior year. During 2005, the demand for sawlogs remained strong due to increased lumber and plywood production. Additionally during 2005, the demand for wood products remained strong due to the strength in both housing starts and repair and remodel activity. However, lumber and plywood prices decreased during 2005 from their record high prices in 2004 as a result of increased supply. The supply of lumber in the U.S. increased by approximately 5% during 2005 due primarily to the construction of new mills and increased imports from Canada. Currency exchange rates, tariffs and quotas, availability and cost of transportation, and the relative cost of manufacturing wood products impact imports of lumber and other wood products into the United States. Canadian imports into the U.S. capture a significant share (approximately 33%) of the U.S. lumber market. A U.S. industry coalition believes the Canadian government, which owns most of the timberlands in Canada, provides unfair subsidies by selling timber at below market prices. Prior to 2002, a trade agreement with Canada limited imports of lumber into the United States. Since May 2002, the U.S. has imposed duties on Canadian imports. During most of 2005, duties were imposed at approximately 20%. However, recently the duties have been lowered to approximately 11%, and there is the potential they could be substantially eliminated in the near future. (See U.S. Canada Softwood Lumber Agreement under this Item). REAL ESTATE SALES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES We estimate that included in our approximately 8.2 million acres of timberlands are approximately 1.3 million acres of higher and better use timberlands and about 530,000 acres of non strategic timberlands. The higher and better use timberlands are expected to be sold over the next 15 years for residential, recreational or conservation purposes. The non strategic timberlands are expected to be sold over the next five years. Included within the 1.3 million acres of higher and better use timberlands are approximately 225,000 acres that will be developed either internally or through joint ventures. We made significant progress in our land development business during 2005. We have identified 123,000 acres with an estimated 110 properties, that we expect to develop internally over the next 15 years. At December 31, 2005, we have ten internal development properties entitled and an additional 18 in the planning process. Revenue from sales of development properties was $3 million during 2005. We expect to continue to be in the start up phase of this business during 2006, and as a result, revenue from sales of development properties is expected to range between $10 million and $25 million, plus revenues of approximately $40 million from the sale of one large project. Our real estate development business is conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. Additionally, we have identified 102,000 acres that we expect to develop through joint ventures. During 2005, we entered into three joint venture agreements covering approximately 6,700 acres. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain approval rights. We expect to enter into additional joint venture agreements during 2006. We do not expect any material revenues from these joint venture agreements during 2006 or 2007. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2005, we harvested a total of 19.2 million tons compared to TWENTY TWO Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 a total of 18.6 million tons during 2004. We expect to harvest approximately 20 million tons during 2006. The increase in the 2006 harvest is due to the acquisition of timberlands in Michigan. For the Southern Resources Segment, we expect total tons harvested during 2006 to be approximately the same as 2005. However, during 2005 we substantially completed the conversion of numerous natural stands to plantations in order to improve growth rates. Therefore, we anticipate that the percentage of large diameter sawlogs that we will harvest during 2006 compared to 2005 will decrease and the percentage of small diameter sawlogs and pulpwood that we will harvest will increase. (See Results of Operations, 2005 Compared to 2004, Southern Resources Segment, under this Item.) Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. The company sells timber under delivered log agreements and sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut contracts and lump sum sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, the seller harvests the tree and delivers it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, the seller incurs the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Contracts. Pay as cut contracts are agreements which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the trees on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases an advance is received in connection with pay as cut contracts, and in other cases the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the trees are harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut contract is a function of the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the agreed upon per unit price for each type of tree on a tract of land. (3) Lump sum Sale Agreements. Under a lump sum sale agreement, the buyer and seller agree to a lump sum price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. Title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is cut. Therefore, revenue is recognized based on the amount of timber actually harvested, compared to total timber available to be harvested on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise, which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the trees are cut, an estimate of how much revenue to recognize each month is made based on how much volume has been removed compared to the total volume available for harvest on a tract of land according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer regarding how much volume has been removed. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the percentage of original timber harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume removed is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which TWENTY THREE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. Finally, for our larger lump sum contracts, which cover multiple tracts, we adjust revenues at the end of each accounting period for any known trends in the tracts that have been completely harvested. For lump sum contracts completed during the past twelve quarters, our largest quarterly adjustment to record the difference between estimated lump sum revenues and actual revenues has been $0.4 million. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2005 2004 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 626 $ 563 Pay as cut sales $ 61 $ 53 Lump sum sales $ 47 $ 47 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, a substantial portion of our timber sales consists of either pay as cut contracts or lump sum sales. Under both pay as cut contracts and lump sum sales, the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs. Therefore, operating profit as a percentage of revenue is significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. Real Estate Sales We estimate that included in the companys approximately 8.2 million acres of timberlands are about 1.3 million acres of higher and better use timberlands, which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for residential, recreational or conservation purposes. In addition, the company has approximately 530,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales, however, is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the ability to get entitlements, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2005, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 48%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. Operating profit percentages vary significantly and depend upon the mix of real estate sales. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because no book basis is allocated to this type of revenue. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company Merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have lower operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. In connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all the acres acquired, except when we can specifically identify properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, TWENTY FOUR Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS In general, the company evaluates its ability to recover its net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, the company estimates the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The cash flows are discounted at the risk free rates of interest. Future cash flow estimates are based on probability weighted projections for a range of possible outcomes. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. The company has grown substantially through acquisitions in recent years. A large portion of the carrying value of the companys Timber and Timberlands, and Property, Plant and Equipment represents amounts of the purchase price of recent acquisitions allocated to those assets. The allocation of the purchase price in a business combination is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. The company tracks cash flows for its 8.2 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into eight geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and nine geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, the company tracks cash flows for each of its ten manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of such assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. The company uses one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of its timber and timberlands. As a result of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, the company does not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in its business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of such asset exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2005, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $1 million. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $21 million in 2004 and $14 million during 2003 in connection with timberlands held for sale. See Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is probable that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is generally not recorded until management has concluded that it is probable (i.e., likely) that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently being actively marketed, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and at what price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are being actively marketed and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management has concluded it is likely the property will be sold within 12 months based on its best estimate of fair value. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful live of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs, volumes of product sold, TWENTY FIVE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 and residual value of the facility. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized an impairment loss of $9 million in connection with one of our lumber mills due to a declining supply of logs. The availability of logs in close proximity to our mills has been declining and is expected to decline further in the future. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our other nine manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to decline and remain weak for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines more than expected, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2005 2004 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 20 $ 20 Southern Resources SegmentA 51 46 Total depletion expense $ 71 $ 66 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 3.65 $ 3.78 Southern Resources Segment $ 3.75 $ 3.47 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 57 $ 53 Southern Resources SegmentB $ 407 $ 381 Estimated future volume (in million tons) Northern Resources SegmentC 329 281 Southern Resources Segment 452 456 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in depletion expense for a 10%: Increase in estimated future silviculture costsD Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.2 $ 1.0 Decrease in estimated future volumeE Northern Resources Segment $ 2.2 $ 2.2 Southern Resources Segment $ 5.7 $ 5.1 A Depletion expense for 2005 includes a $2 million loss, representing the book basis of timber volume destroyed as a result of severe winds from Hurricane Katrina. B Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs. C Increase in estimated future volumes is due to the 2005 acquisition of timberlands in Michigan. D Assumes future timber volumes do not change. E Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. TWENTY SIX Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. The company has invested in technology that enables it to predict its current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. DEFERRED INCOME TAXES Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level income tax if it distributes 100% of its taxable income to shareholders and satisfies other organizational and operational requirements as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If a company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. As a consequence of the October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company, which involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger with The Timber Company within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent that the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. Built in gains tax is generally not payable on dispositions of property to the extent the proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. The built in gains tax does not apply to income generated from the harvesting and sale of timber. In connection with our merger with The Timber Company, we wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability relates to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2005, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $1 million in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. Based on projected timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax for the period December 31, 2005 to October 6, 2011, and our ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties, we estimate we need a deferred tax liability of $5 million. As a result, we reduced the deferred tax liability associated with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax from $10 million to $5 million and correspondingly recorded a deferred tax benefit of $5 million during 2005. See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements. It is likely that actual timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax over the ten year period will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLANS Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, dividend equivalents and value management awards. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. The company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)) effective January 1, 2006. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to January 1, 2006, the company used the fair value method of accounting for its stock based compensation. (The company adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, effective January 1, 2002.) Therefore, the company does not expect the expense for stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to be materially different under SFAS No. 123(R) than the expense it recognized under SFAS No. 123. During 2005, the company recognized in the aggregate stock based compensation expense of $3.4 million for stock options and restricted stock. There were no outstanding restricted stock units during 2005. TWENTY SEVEN Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 In addition to stock options and restricted stock, the company also grants dividend equivalents and value management awards, a portion of which may be payable in the companys stock. Grants of both dividend equivalents and value management awards represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities under SFAS No. 123(R). As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period for both dividend equivalents and value management awards will equal the fair value of an award as of the last day of the performance period times the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period to be based on the fair value of dividend equivalents and value management awards as of the end of the most recent quarter. The company does not expect the total expense recognized over the performance period for dividend equivalents and value management awards computed in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) to be materially different than the total expense currently computed under SFAS No. 123. However, as a result of the requirement under SFAS No. 123(R) to base the quarterly expense on the current fair value of dividend equivalent and value management awards, the quarterly and annual expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) could be materially different than the quarterly and annual expense we recognized under SFAS No. 123. During 2005, the company recognized in the aggregate stock based compensation expense of $5.3 million for dividend equivalents and value management awards. In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the company expects to recognize during the first quarter of 2006, a $2 million, net of tax, increase to earnings as a cumulative effect of an accounting change. The benefit is based on the difference between the fair values of outstanding dividend equivalent and value management awards as of January 1, 2006, and our accrued liability for dividend equivalent and value management awards at December 31, 2005. After adjusting for the cumulative effect of an accounting change, our accrued stock based compensation liability for dividend equivalent and value management awards is $9 million. The $9 million accrued liability at January 1, 2006 is based on the current fair value of the outstanding awards times the percentage of months worked during the performance period. The fair value of the outstanding awards is impacted by our performance compared to several peer groups, the maximum value of an award, and the vested portion of dividend equivalents. The liability at January 1, 2006 could range between $6 million and $16 million based on the possible fair values of all outstanding awards. Beginning with the first quarter of 2006, any change in our accrual as a result of the change in an awards fair value will be fully reflected in the current quarters operating income. PENSIONS Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and several supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits generally vest after five years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year treasury bond rate. Furthermore, employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits of hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. Furthermore, we intend to fund our qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (ABO, the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plans. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors. TWENTY EIGHT Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2005 2004 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount rateA 5.75 % 5.75 % Rate of compensation increaseC 3.7 % 3.7 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount rate 5.75 % 6.25 % Expected long term return on plan assetsB 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of compensation increaseC 3.7 % 3.7 % A The December 31, 2005, discount rate was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2005, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2005. B The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. C The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumption for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2005 2004 Key Financial Measures Pension expense $ 9 $ 7 Cash pension plan contributions qualified plan 9 9 Cash grantor trust funding supplemental plans 2 1 Unfunded accrued pension cost 14 14 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in pension expense for every 0.25 percentage point: decrease in long term rate of return on plan assets $ 0.2 $ 0.2 decrease in weighted average discount rate 0.7 0.7 increase in rate of increase in compensation levels 0.2 0.1 Increase in qualified pension funding for every 0.25 percentage point decrease in weighted average discount rate $ 3.7 $ 3.7 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 5.75% for 2006 and 6.00% for 2007 and beyond, and a 3.70% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project that our annual pension expense for 2006 through 2008 will be comparable to the $9 million annual pension expense in 2005. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to be approximately $3 million during 2006 increasing to approximately $7 million by 2009. TWENTY NINE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The consolidated financial statements of the company reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. During 2005, the company entered into three joint venture agreements with land developers covering approximately 6,700 acres. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain approval rights. The company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnership, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Consequently, the company has no off balance sheet debt. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we entered into two treasury lock arrangements to secure current long term interest rates in connection with our issuance of $300 million of senior notes due 2015. See Note 6 of the Notes to Financial Statements. These hedging transactions were settled for a net amount of less than $0.1 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2005 (in millions): Payment due by period Less than More than Contractual Obligations Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debtA $ 2,846 $ 329 $ 469 $ 902 $ 1,146 Operating lease obligations 26 4 7 5 10 Timber obligations 11 1 2 2 6 Long term incentive plans 12 3 8 1 Purchase ObligationsB 43 31 12 Other Long Term LiabilitiesC Total Contractual Obligations $ 2,938 $ 368 $ 498 $ 910 $ 1,162 A In addition to principal, Long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt of $118 million (Less than one year), $196 million (1 3 years), $149 million (3 5 years), and $153 million (More than 5 years). Also, short term variable rate debt interest of $1 million is included in 2006 and is based on the actual interest rate as of December 31, 2005. As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of principal is included. Interest expense related to our line of credit was $5 million in 2005. B Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $15 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $11 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $4 million for real estate development, and $3 million for reforestation and silviculture. C We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2005, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $8 million, deferred compensation obligations of $8 million and non qualified pension obligations of $17 million. We expect to fund approximately $2 million for workers compensation payments in 2006. We have made contributions to our qualified pension plan such that the fair value of the pension plan assets at December 31, 2005, exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. As a result of this funding level, there are no qualified pension funding obligations at December 31, 2005. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2005, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $8 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2005, the fair value of assets in the other grantor trust of $18 million exceeded the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans of $17 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. See Notes 8 and 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results HARVEST PLANS We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 105,000 to 770,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all THIRTY Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors that may be outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels may be impacted by both our planned sales of non strategic and higher and better use timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 5.4 million tons (66% sawlogs and 34% pulpwood) during 2005 and 5.2 million tons (67% sawlogs and 33% pulpwood) during 2004. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2006 are expected to increase by approximately 16% over 2005 and are expected to be 62% sawlogs and 38% pulpwood. The primarily reason for this increase and change in mix is due to our acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan during the fourth quarter of 2005. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 13.8 million tons (51% sawlogs and 49% pulpwood) during 2005 and 13.3 million tons (50% sawlogs and 50% pulpwood) during 2004. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment in 2006 are expected to increase by approximately 1% over 2005 and are expected to be 50% sawlogs and 50% pulpwood. U.S. CANADA SOFTWOOD LUMBER AGREEMENT Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. This source of lumber was constrained in April 1996 when a five year lumber trade agreement between the U.S. and Canada went into effect. The trade agreement was intended to limit the volume of Canadian lumber exported into the U.S. through the assessment of an export tariff on annual lumber exports to the U.S. in excess of certain levels from the four major producing Canadian provinces. The trade agreement expired in March 2001, and soon thereafter a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce. In March 2002, the Department of Commerce rendered a final determination in favor of the U.S. industry coalition and set a 19.3% countervailing duty on Canadian lumber imports and an anti dumping duty on all non investigated Canadian exporters averaging 9.7% (representing the weighted average of the anti dumping rates imposed on the investigated Canadian exporters). The Department of Commerce decreased these duties in April 2002 to 18.8% and 8.4%, respectively, and in December 2004, it decreased them again to 16.4% and 3.8%, respectively. In December 2005, the countervailing duty rate was reduced to 8.7% and the anti dumping duty was reduced to 2.1%, for a combined duty of 10.8%. Due to strong demand for lumber in the U.S. and favorable lumber prices, the duties have not thus far had the effect of decreasing Canadian lumber imports share of the U.S. market. It is uncertain whether Canadas share of the U.S. market would be adversely affected by import duties in times of weaker domestic demand for lumber. The future of the U.S. imposed import duties on Canadian lumber remains uncertain. While the WTO and NAFTA appeal boards have issued rulings on Canadian challenges to the duties that affirmed the U.S. position regarding a Canadian subsidy on stumpage, the rulings also included provisions for re examining the calculation and level of the duties. In September 2005, the NAFTA panel remanded to the Department of Commerce its subsidy calculation upon which duties are based with instructions to make a de minimus calculation. In response, the Department of Commerce issued a subsidy calculation of 0.8% in November 2005, which could result in the elimination of countervailing duty by as early as September 2006. The U.S. industry coalition has challenged the Department of Commerce subsidy calculation to a NAFTA panel. If the calculation is ultimately upheld, it is possible that the countervailing duty could be eliminated entirely. In addition, the NAFTA panel has ruled that the International Trade Commissions determination of injury to U.S. industry from Canadian lumber imports, which is the basis for imposing the duties, was not supported with substantial evidence. The commission unsuccessfully appealed this decision, and as a result was directed to issue a no injury opinion. The NAFTA decision was then unsuccessfully appealed to an Extraordinary Challenge Committee under the NAFTA dispute resolution process. Presently, the U.S. industry coalition has initiated a constitutional challenge to a portion of the NAFTA dispute resolution process. The ruling on this challenge could have a material impact on the outcome of this dispute. THIRTY ONE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 The U.S. and representatives of the Canadian government continue, from time to time, to pursue a settlement agreement. However, there can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, or that the terms of any such final agreement would be favorable to the U.S. lumber industrys interests. Likewise, there can be no assurance that the ultimate legal resolution of this dispute will be on terms favorable to the U.S. industrys interest. Therefore, other factors remaining unchanged, any downward pressure on domestic lumber and log prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase, particularly during periods of weak lumber demand. COMPARABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PERIODS Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During 2005, we acquired 754,000 acres of timberlands, located in Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida. During 2004, we acquired 78,000 acres of timberlands located in Arkansas and Maine. During 2003, we acquired 139,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in South Carolina, Arkansas and New Hampshire. We sold approximately 232,000 acres of timberlands in 2005, 375,000 acres in 2004, and 125,000 acres in 2003. As a result of these timberland acquisitions and dispositions, our ownership was 8.2 million acres at December 31, 2005, 7.8 million acres at December 31, 2004, and 8.1 million acres at December 31, 2003. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Northern Resources $ 102 $ 100 $ 82 Southern Resources 221 207 216 Real Estate 140 152 47 Manufactured Products 30 58 (5 ) Other 13 9 7 Gain on Sale of Other Assets 5 Total Segment Operating Income 506 531 347 Other Costs & Eliminations (58 ) (54 ) (44 ) Operating Income $ 448 $ 477 $ 303 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $22 million, or 7%, to $347 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to higher harvest volume ($12 million) and higher product prices ($11 million). The increase in volume is due primarily to harvesting on timberlands acquired during the past several years, stronger log demand due to new mills, and an increase of harvest levels in certain markets to take advantage of favorable log prices. Revenues in 2005 included $4 million from the harvesting of 85,000 tons associated with our acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan during November of 2005. Sawlog prices increased by 3% ($8 million) due primarily to higher demand for logs as a result of increased lumber production and a limited supply of logs. Pulpwood prices increased by 8% ($5 million) due primarily to low log inventories. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 29% of its revenues for 2005 and 31% for 2004. Segment costs and expenses increased by $20 million, or 9%, to $245 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to higher per ton log and haul rates ($12 million) and higher harvest volume. Log and haul cost on a per ton basis increased by 7% due primarily to higher fuel costs. Segment expenses in 2005 included $3 million as a result of our harvesting on recently acquired timberlands in Michigan. For 2006, we expect harvest volumes to increase approximately 16% to 6.3 million tons. This increase is due primarily to the approximately 850,000 tons we expect to harvest from our recently acquired timberlands in Michigan. THIRTY TWO Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $42 million, or 9%, to $501 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber ($19 million), higher harvest volume ($11 million) and higher softwood sawlog prices ($7 million). Revenues increased $19 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. A portion of the increase in delivered log sales is by way of decreasing the percentage of standing timber sales. Under its delivered log sale agreements, the company is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. The company sells logs on a delivered basis when, in managements judgment, log merchandising efforts will yield a premium over selling stumpage. While revenues are higher when the company is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, a large portion of that increase in revenue is to cover the related increase in cost of sales. As a result, on delivered log sales the company realizes lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, even though operating income is generally improved. Harvest volume increased due to favorable harvesting conditions during most of 2005 and a planned increase in harvest levels. The planned increase in harvest levels is the result of an increased percentage of maturing timber on our southern timberlands. Softwood sawlog prices increased temporarily during the first half of 2005 due primarily to a weather related shortage of logs. Several of our customers had low log inventories at the end of 2004 due to wet weather during the second half of 2004, and as a result, offered higher prices in order to rebuild log decks. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 44% of its revenues for 2005 and 45% for 2004. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $28 million, or 11%, to $280 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber, increased harvesting volume, and higher fuel costs. The per ton rate increase for log and haul costs, which increased costs and expenses by $11 million, was due primarily to higher fuel costs. In 2005, approximately 350,000 acres of our timberlands in Mississippi were impacted by severe winds from Hurricane Katrina. As a result, we recorded a $2 million loss in 2005, which represents the book basis for approximately 600,000 tons of timber that was destroyed. Following Hurricane Katrina, we began salvaging timber that was blown down but not destroyed. For 2005, operating income was reduced by $1 million due to higher logging costs from our salvage operations. We expect to complete salvage operations during the first quarter of 2006 and estimate additional logging costs associated with our salvage operations to be approximately $1 million. During 2005, we harvested approximately 13.8 million tons of timber. We expect total tons harvested during 2006 to be approximately the same. However, during 2005 we substantially completed the conversion of numerous natural stands to plantations in order to improve growth rates. Therefore, we anticipate that the percentage of large diameter sawlogs that we will harvest during 2006 compared to 2005 will decrease and the percentage of small diameter sawlogs and pulpwood that we will harvest will increase. As a result of this change in log mix, we expect revenues and operating income to decrease between $10 million and $15 million. Real Estate Segment 2005 2004 Acres Revenues Revenue Acres Revenue Revenue Property Sold (millions) per Acre Sold (millions) per Acre Small Non Strategic 148,200 $ 160 $ 1,075 34,000 $ 42 $ 1,230 Large Non Strategic 40,000 31 780 255,000 133 520 Conservation 22,600 26 1,150 65,000 73 1,125 Higher and Better Use/ Recreational 21,000 59 2,820 21,100 52 2,450 Development Properties 200 3 14,500 50 3 61,000 Conservation Easements n/a 13 450 n/a Total 232,000 $ 292 375,150 $ 303 Revenues decreased by $11 million to $292 million in 2005. Excluding revenues from the large, non strategic timberland sales, revenues increased $91 million to $261 million for 2005, compared to $170 million for 2004. This increase is due primarily to an increase in land sales activity as the company executes its strategy of selling non strategic timberlands. Large, non strategic timberland sales excluded, the sales of our conservation and small non THIRTY THREE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 strategic timberlands accounted for approximately 90% of the acres sold during 2005 compared to 82% of the acres sold during 2004. Higher and better use timberland sales represented approximately 10% of the acres sold during 2005 compared to 18% of the acres sold during 2004. Our land portfolio includes 6.4 million acres of core timberlands, 530,000 acres of timberland considered to be non strategic, and 1.3 million acres of timberlands with higher value for uses other than growing timber. These 1.3 million acres with higher values are further segmented into three categories: conservation (500,000 acres); recreation and higher and better use properties (550,000 acres); and those properties to be developed (225,000 acres). The non strategic timberlands are expected to be sold as small tracts over the next five years. The higher value properties, located throughout our ownership, appeal to a variety of buyers and are expected to be sold over the next 15 years. Until these properties are sold, they will continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales, however, is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the ability to get entitlements, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2006 to range between $280 and $300 million from the sale of 100,000 to 150,000 acres. We estimate these sales will consist of 45,000 to 60,000 non strategic acres, up to 6,000 development acres and the remainder from the sales of higher and better use and conservation acres. Real Estate Segment operating income was 48% of its revenues for 2005, compared to 50% for 2004. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $1 million to $152 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to an increase in land sales activity associated with small parcels of non strategic timberlands ($28 million, primarily land basis) and an increase in costs associated with development activities ($7 million), offset in part by a decrease in large, non strategic timberland sales ($34 million, primarily land basis). Costs associated with our real estate development activities increased to $10 million in 2005 compared to $3 million in 2004 due primarily to new costs (e.g. investigatory, appraisals, feasibility studies, environmental and engineering studies, market analysis) associated with our expanding real estate development business. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $14 million, or 3%, to $504 million in 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($11 million), lower plywood prices ($9 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($10 million). Despite the highest level of U.S. housing starts since 1972 (U.S. housing starts during 2005 were 5.6% higher than housing starts during 2004), lumber prices decreased by 7% due primarily to increased lumber production and imports. U.S. lumber production during the first eleven months of 2005 was 4% higher than the same period in 2004 due to start up of new mills and capacity expansions at existing mills. Furthermore, lumber imports from Canada during the first eleven months of 2005 increased by 2% over the same period in 2004, and offshore imports (Europe and Latin America) increased by 28%, due primarily to the strength of the U.S. economy and weak foreign markets. Plywood prices decreased by 7% due primarily to the increase in North America structural panels (plywood and oriented strand board) production capacity and offshore imports. During 2005, North America structural panel production capacity has increased by approximately one billion square feet, or approximately 3% of the annual U.S. structural panel consumption. During 2005, offshore imports (primarily Latin America) increased 32% over 2004 amounts. MDF prices increased 6% due primarily to improved demand and a richer production mix. MDF demand has increased due to strong housing starts and improved repair and remodeling markets. During the first half of 2004, we resolved all of our start up issues associated with our new MDF thin board line and, as a result, have increased the percentage of higher margin products we produce. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was 6% of its revenues for 2005 and 11% for 2004. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices and higher energy and raw material costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $14 million, or 3%, to $474 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to higher log costs and higher energy prices. Log costs have increased due primarily to a declining supply of logs in Montana and favorable lumber and plywood prices. Energy costs, including the impact on resin prices, have increased by $5 million over the prior year. Other Costs and Eliminations/ Gain on Sale of Other Assets. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $58 million in 2005, compared to a decrease of $54 million in 2004. This increase of $4 million was due primarily to higher corporate overhead associated with accounting and timber and timberland systems, and corporate compliance. Corporate THIRTY FOUR Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 overhead during 2006 is expected to increase by an additional $5 million to $10 million as a result of increased costs associated with strategic business development, information technology and long term incentive plans. During 2004, we sold our working interest in our coalbed methane gas joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. for $27 million and recorded a gain of $5 million. Interest Expense, net. Net interest expense decreased by $2 million to $109 million for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to the replacement of high interest rate debt with lower interest rate debt. We expect interest expense for 2006 to increase by $14 million to $123 million due primarily to the issuance of $300 million senior notes due 2015 in connection with our November 15, 2005 acquisition of timberland in Michigan. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $8 million for 2005 compared to $27 million for 2004. This decrease of $19 million is due primarily to a $28 million decline in the operating income of the Manufacturing Products Segment (resulting in a lower tax expense of $11 million), a $5 million remeasurement of our Deferred Tax Liability, and the $5 million gain we recognized during the second quarter of 2004 from the sale of our coalbed methane gas working interest (resulting in a higher tax expense in the prior year of $2 million). Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and as such, is generally not subject to corporate level income tax. However, the company conducts certain non REIT activities through various taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are subject to corporate level income tax. These activities include our manufacturing operations, the harvesting and selling of logs, and the development and or sale of some of our higher and better use lands. Furthermore, as we continue to expand our real estate development business we expect a greater percentage of our income will be subject to corporate level income tax. In addition to corporate level income tax on certain non REIT activities conducted through various taxable REIT subsidiaries, the company is subject to built in gains tax on certain property dispositions as a consequence of our October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company. Our merger with The Timber Company involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, and as a result, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level income tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger within the ten year period following the merger date. However, the tax is generally not payable to the extent proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. During the fourth quarter of 2001, in connection with our merger with The Timber Company, we wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability relates to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2005, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $1 million in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we are required to remeasure the amount of deferred income taxes needed in connection with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax whenever management has better information to make an estimate. Prior to 2005, the company was in the process of expanding its real estate sales and believed it needed $11 million of deferred income taxes for expected sales of timberlands subject to built in gains tax. During 2005, management revised its prior projection of future sales as well as the extent to which future sales proceeds could be successfully reinvested in like kind property. Based upon the revised projection, management estimated that the company needed $5 million of deferred incomes taxes associated with timberlands acquired in connection with our 2001 merger with The Timber Company. This estimate was based on projected timberland sales subject to the ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties. Therefore, during 2005, we reduced the related deferred tax liability associated with expected sales of timberlands subject to built in gains tax from $10 million to $5 million and correspondingly, recorded a deferred tax benefit of $5 million. Since there is significant judgment in estimating future sales subject to the built in gains tax and our ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind property, these estimates may be revised during the remaining built in gains tax period. Any revised estimate may result in a material adjustment to our deferred tax liability. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. In December 2004, the company sold certain subsurface property rights (primarily coal reserves, excluding coalbed methane, oil and gas reserves) in Buchanan County, Virginia. The net gain, after reducing the proceeds for applicable book basis and income taxes, was $23 million. During the first quarter of 2005, the company sold its remaining coal reserves for a total gain of $20 million, net of selling costs and THIRTY FIVE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 applicable income taxes. The company also sold other industrial mineral assets during the fourth quarter 2005 for a total gain of $3 million, net of tax. 2004 COMPARED TO 2003 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $16 million, or 5%, to $325 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog prices ($27 million) and higher pulpwood prices ($9 million), offset in part by lower sawlog sales volume ($23 million). Sawlog prices increased by 12% due primarily to strong lumber and plywood markets, good hardwood specialty demand, and a limited supply of logs. Pulpwood prices increased by 17% due primarily to a shortage of logging contractors and low mill fiber inventories. Sawlog sales volume decreased by 9% due primarily to a planned reduction in harvest levels. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 31% of its revenues for 2004 and 27% for 2003. This increase was due primarily to higher sawlog and pulpwood prices, offset in part by higher log and haul costs. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $2 million, or 1%, to $225 million in 2004. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($9 million) and as a result of no fire loss during 2004 compared to a $4 million fire loss in 2003, offset in part by higher log and haul cost ($10 million). Log and haul costs increased by 7% on a per ton basis due primarily to higher fuel costs, longer hauling distances and a shortage of logging contractors. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $14 million, or 3%, to $459 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber. Under its delivered log sale agreements, the company is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. While revenues are higher when the company is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, costs of sales generally increase by a similar amount. As a result, the company realizes lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, although operating income is not generally affected. Despite strong lumber and plywood prices during most of 2004, sawlog prices generally held steady due to an abundant supply of logs. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 45% of its revenues for 2004 and 49% for 2003. This decrease was due primarily to the increased percentage of delivered log sales and higher fuel costs. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $23 million, or 10%, to $252 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber and higher fuel costs. Real Estate Segment. Revenues increased by $179 million to $303 million in 2004. This increase is due primarily to an increase in land sales activity as the company executes its strategy of selling higher and better use timberlands and non strategic timberlands. During 2004, we sold approximately 255,000 acres of large, non strategic timberlands for $133 million compared to 29,000 acres for $13 million in 2003. During 2004, we sold approximately 120,000 acres of higher and better use timberlands and small parcels of non strategic timberlands for $170 million compared to 96,000 acres for $111 million in 2003. Real Estate Segment operating income was 50% of its revenues for 2004, compared to 38% for 2003. This increase was due primarily to selling a higher percentage of low basis timberlands during 2004 compared to 2003. See Critical Accounting Policies, Real Estate Sales under this Item. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $74 million to $151 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to large, non strategic timberlands transactions ($42 million) and the increase in land sales activity associated with higher and better use timberlands and small parcels of non strategic timberlands. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues increased by $121 million, or 30%, to $518 million in 2004. This increase was due primarily to higher lumber prices ($41 million), higher plywood prices ($36 million) and higher MDF sales volume ($24 million). Lumber prices increased by 27% due primarily to exceptionally strong housing starts during 2004 on top of 25 year record high housing starts during 2003, limited log availability and transportation issues. Housing starts for 2004 were 6% higher than housing starts during 2003. Log availability was limited during the first half of 2004 as a result of severe forest fires in the Western United States and Canada during the second half of 2003. Also favorably impacting lumber prices were inventory shortages during most of 2004 as a result of rail transportation delays. However, commodity lumber prices peaked in August and have since declined by approximately 10%. Plywood prices increased by 33% due primarily to near record high structural panel (plywood and oriented strand board) prices and strong industrial demand. Structural panel prices were at near record high levels during the first six months of 2004 as a result of exceptionally strong housing starts and low field inventories at the beginning of the year. Wholesalers and distributors continued their just in time buying pattern during 2003, and THIRTY SIX Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 as a result, field inventories were not sufficient to meet exceptionally strong demand during the first half of 2004. Industrial demand (boats, recreational vehicles, trailers, etc.) has strengthened due to the improving U.S. economy. However, commodity plywood prices peaked during second quarter of 2004 and have since declined by approximately 28%. MDF sales volume increased by 24% due primarily to resolving all major start up issues associated with our new MDF thin board line, which operated near its projected design capacity during 2004. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was $58 million for 2004, compared to an operating loss of $5 million for 2003. This $63 million improvement in operating performance was due primarily to higher lumber and plywood prices and higher MDF sales volume, offset in part by an impairment loss of $9 million related to a lumber facility. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses increased by $58 million, or 14%, to $460 million in 2004. This increase in costs was due primarily to higher MDF sales volume, higher lumber raw material costs, and an impairment loss of $9 million to write down the manufacturing assets at a lumber facility. Other Costs and Eliminations/ Gain on Sale of Other Assets. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $54 million in 2004, compared to a decrease of $44 million in 2003. This difference of $10 million was due primarily to an increase in corporate expenses. Corporate expenses have increased due primarily to higher costs for long term incentive plans of $6 million (see Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements) and higher regulatory costs of $2 million. Plum Creek had been a party to a joint operating agreement with Geomet, Inc., a coalbed methane developer, with whom the company jointly explored for and developed coalbed methane gas found on certain of its timberlands in West Virginia and Virginia. During the second quarter of 2004, the company sold its working interest in the joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. for $27 million and recorded a gain of $5 million. Plum Creek retained its royalty interest in the project. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was a $27 million expense for 2004, compared to a $6 million benefit for 2003. This change of $33 million was due primarily to the $63 million improvement in the operating performance for the Manufactured Products Segment (resulting in a higher tax expense of $25 million) and a $5 million gain on the sale of our working interest in a joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. (resulting in a higher tax expense of $2 million). Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, and as such, is generally not subject to corporate level income tax. However, the company conducts certain non REIT activities through various taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are subject to corporate level income tax. These activities include our manufacturing operations, the harvesting and selling of logs, and sales of some of our higher and better use timberlands. See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. In December 2004, Plum Creek sold certain subsurface property rights (primarily coal reserves, excluding coalbed methane, oil and gas reserves) in Buchanan County, Virginia. The company received proceeds of $23 million in connection with the sale and the release of certain legal claims, which the company believes comprised a portion of the proceeds. However, the sale agreement did not specify an allocation. The net gain from this sale and settlement of certain legal claims, after reducing the proceeds for applicable book basis and income taxes, was $23 million. Financial Condition and Liquidity Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $516 million, compared to $582 million in 2004. The decrease of $66 million was due primarily to a $28 million decrease in operating income from our manufacturing facilities and a $24 million negative change in working capital. The negative working capital change was due primarily to an increase in like kind exchange proceeds held in escrow. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 totaled $582 million, compared to $385 million for 2003. The increase of $197 million was due primarily to a $179 million increase in revenues from timberland sales (which included $133 million of revenues from sales of large, non strategic timberlands, which was used to repay debt) and a $63 million improvement in operating income from our manufacturing facilities, offset in part by a $29 million negative change in working capital. The negative working capital change was due primarily to an increase in like kind exchange proceeds held in escrow and manufacturing inventories. Debt Financing. In August of 2004, the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement under which Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, debt securities, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees up to a THIRTY SEVEN Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 total amount of $400 million, and under which Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership, may from time to time, offer and sell debt securities up to an additional total amount of $400 million. At December 31, 2005, under the companys shelf registration statement, $400 million remained available for issuance of equity or debt securities at Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. and $100 million remained available for issuance of debt securities at Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. In November of 2005, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. issued $300 million aggregate principal notes with a coupon rate of 5.875% at a market price of 99.731% of the principal amount. The notes, issued under the companys and Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P.s shelf registration statement, mature in 2015. The net proceeds of $297 million were used primarily to acquire 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan, valued at $345 million. The transaction was also by funded by $87 million of like kind exchange funds. In May of 2005, the company entered into a $50 million one year term loan agreement to finance the acquisition of approximately 35,000 acres of timberlands in Florida. At December 31, 2005, the interest rate for the term loan was 4.88%, which is based on LIBOR plus 0.5%. This rate can change from LIBOR plus 0.4% to LIBOR plus 1.075% depending on our financial results. The company has a $650 million facility revolving line of credit maturing on January 15, 2009. As of December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate for the line of credit was 5.14%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.875% and includes facility fees. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.625% depending on our financial results. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $650 million, including up to $50 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily, based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2005, we had $495 million of borrowings and $6 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $149 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 6, 2006, $398 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. The companys borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). The borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. Furthermore, our line of credit requires that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. The company was in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2005. The companys financial policy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, for 2005 were $89 million, compared to $70 million in 2004 and $84 million for 2003. During 2005, Plum Creek acquired approximately 754,000 acres of timberlands located in Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida for $501 million with funds from tax deferred exchange transactions, debt and funds from operations. During 2004, Plum Creek acquired approximately 78,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Arkansas and Maine for $66 million with funds from operations and funds from tax deferred exchange transactions. Planned capital expenditures for 2006, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $110 million and $120 million and include approximately $73 million for our timberlands, $26 million for land development investments, and $13 million for our manufacturing facilities. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Of planned capital expenditures in 2006, approximately 50% are considered to be discretionary. Discretionary expenditures consist primarily of silviculture investments and land development investments. Other capital expenditures consist primarily of reforestation and projects at our manufacturing facilities to sustain operating activities or improve safety. Equity. On February 7, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.40 per share, or approximately $74 million, which will be paid on March 3, 2006, to stockholders of record on February 17, 2006. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors THIRTY EIGHT Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. In October of 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the company to repurchase up to $200 million of the companys common stock. As of December 31, 2005, the company had repurchased approximately 2 million shares of common stock for a total cost of $43 million at an average price of $21.53 per share. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures, and interest and principal payments on our indebtedness for the next year. In 2006 and 2007, the company has significant long term debt principal payment requirements. The company intends to refinance these principal payments at the time of maturity with the use of a combination of short term and long term borrowings, depending on interest rate and market conditions. Management believes that the companys credit ratings, asset base and historical financial performance will allow these refinancings to be completed at attractive interest rates. Other Information In December of 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends SFAS No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. SFAS No. 123(R) must be adopted for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. Early adoption will be permitted in periods in which financial statements have not yet been issued. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. The company adopted the fair value based method of accounting for share based payments effective January 1, 2002, using the prospective method described in SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. Currently, the company uses the Black Scholes Merton formula to estimate the value of stock options granted to employees and expects to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model upon the required adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. The company does not expect the expense for stock options computed in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) to be materially different than the expense currently computed under SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. While the company cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future (because they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options), the amounts of operating cash flows recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions were immaterial. In addition to stock options, the company also grants restricted stock, and dividend equivalents and value management awards, a portion of which may be payable in the companys stock. Grants of both dividend equivalents and value management awards represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities under SFAS No. 123(R). As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period for both dividend equivalents and value management awards will equal the fair value of an award as of the last day of the performance period times the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period to be based on the fair value of dividend equivalents and value management awards as of the end of the most recent quarter. The company does not expect the total expense recognized over the performance period for dividend equivalents and value management awards computed in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) to be materially different than the total expense currently computed under SFAS No. 123. However, as a result of the requirement under SFAS No. 123(R) to base the quarterly expense on the current fair value of dividend equivalent and value management awards, the quarterly and annual expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) could be materially different than the quarterly and annual expense we currently recognize under SFAS No. 123. THIRTY NINE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7 SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the total impact of adopting the standard be accounted for as a cumulative effect of an accounting change, with the total impact shown on the income statement net of tax. Based on the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), the company anticipates this cumulative impact to be approximately a $2 million, net of tax, increase to earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The cumulative effect adjustment is primarily a result of changes in expense related to the fair value of the dividend equivalent rights and value management awards. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 (SFAS No. 151). SFAS No. 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The new Statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. Management does not expect that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation 47 (FIN 47), which finalized a proposed interpretation of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations. The interpretation addresses the issue of whether SFAS No. 143 requires an entity to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement when the asset retirement activities are conditional on a future event, and if so, the timing and valuation of the recognition. The decision reached by the FASB was that there are no instances where a law or regulation obligates an entity to perform retirement activities but then allows the entity to permanently avoid settling the obligation. The adoption of FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 (SFAS No. 153). SFAS No. 153 is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Opinion No. 29 provided an exception to its basic measurement principle, fair value, for exchanges of similar production assets. Under Opinion No. 29, an exchange of a productive asset was based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished. The FASB eliminated this exception and replaced it with an exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. The FASB believes this Statement produces financial reporting that more faithfully represents the economics of nonmonetary asset exchange transactions. The new Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FORTY Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Approximately $1.7 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Fair ValueA December 31, 2005 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 994 $ 1,680 $ 1,776 Average interest rate 7.2 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.3 % Variable rate debtC $ 50 $ 495 $ 545 $ 545 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Fair ValueB December 31, 2004 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 27 $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 753 $ 1,407 $ 1,541 Average interest rate 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.4 % 7.5 % 7.3 % 7.1 % Variable rate debt $ 20 $ 448 $ 468 $ 468 A The increase in the fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to December 31, 2004 was due primarily to the issuance of $300 million in senior notes in November of 2005, partially offset by generally higher interest rates at December 31, 2005 compared to 2004 and the repayment of $27 million of fixed rate borrowings during 2005. B Excludes unamortized premium of $4 million at December 31, 2005 and $10 million at December 31, 2004. C As of December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate on the $495 million of borrowings under our $650 million revolving line of credit was 5.14%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.875% and includes facility fees. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.75% to LIBOR plus 1.625% depending on our financial results. In April of 2005, Plum Creek retired its $20 million variable rate senior note bearing interest at 3 month LIBOR plus 1.445% due in 2008 prior to its maturity using funds available under the companys revolving line of credit. The company also has a $50 million one year term loan agreement due in May of 2006. As of December 31, 2005, the interest rate for the term loan was 4.88%, which is based on LIBOR plus 0.5%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.4% to LIBOR plus 1.075% depending on our financial results. FORTY ONE Table of Contents PART II/ITEM 8 
 
