ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview 2006 OPERATING PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO 2005 Operating income increased by $13 million to $461 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the one time gain of $14 million in connection with the settlement of the Canadian Lumber dispute. (See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements, Other Operating Income) Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment increased by $6 million to $105 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to $13 million of operating income associated with our November 2005 acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan, offset in part by lower sawlog prices and higher per ton log and haul rates. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $39 million, or 18%, to $178 million. This decrease was due primarily to a weaker product mix, lower sawlog prices and higher per ton log and haul rates. During 2005, we substantially completed the conversion of numerous natural stands to plantations; and therefore, the percentage of large diameter sawlogs harvested in 2006 decreased and the percentage of small diameter sawlogs and pulpwood increased. Operating income decreased by $14 million as a result of this conversion. Operating income from our Real Estate Segment increased by $42 million, or 31%, to $178 million. This increase was due primarily to our expanding real estate development business and selling a higher percentage of high value properties and a lower percentage of low value properties. During 2006, operating income associated with our real estate development business was $22 million compared to an operating loss of $7 million during 2005. 10K 26 Table of Contents Operating income for our Manufactured Products Segment decreased by $7 million to $22 million. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices, higher plywood manufacturing costs and higher MDF raw material costs, offset in part by higher MDF prices. Our operating income in 2005 and 2006 has been significantly impacted by higher per ton log and haul rates. In our Northern Resources Segment, operating income was negatively impacted by $9 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and by an additional $8 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Additionally, in our Southern Resources Segment, operating income was negatively impacted by $10 million in 2005 compared to 2004 and by an additional $11 million in 2006 compared to 2005. The per ton increase in log and haul rates is due primarily to higher fuel costs and longer hauling distances. Our 2006 earnings were also impacted by higher interest expense. Interest expense increased by $24 million, or 22%, to $133 million. This increase was due primarily to the issuance of $300 million senior notes due 2015 in connection with our acquisition of timberlands in Michigan for $345 million in November 2005 and our repurchase of approximately 7.5 million shares of our common stock for $263 million during 2006. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS Our operating performance is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. During 2004 and 2005, housing starts were 1.96 million and 2.07 million, respectively. We believe housing starts in 2004 and 2005 were at unsustainable levels due to low interest rates and speculative buying. Housing starts during 2006 decreased by 12% to 1.82 million starts and are expected to decline further in 2007. The further decline is due in part to higher interest rates, increased inventory of unsold homes and higher vacancy rates. Thirty year fixed rate interest rates increased from 5.9% during 2005 to 6.4% during 2006. At the end of 2006, there was over a six month supply of new homes for sale compared to a four and one half month supply at the end of 2005. During 2006, the demand for sawlogs weakened due to mill shutdowns and curtailments as a result of the slowdown in home construction and repair and remodeling activity. Repair and remodeling activities decreased during 2006 and are expected to decline further during 2007 due to the decline in home sales and lower home price appreciation. The demand for sawlogs in 2007 is expected to remain weak until housing starts improve. Currency exchange rates, tariffs and quotas, availability and cost of transportation, and the relative cost of manufacturing wood products impact imports of lumber and other wood products into the United States. Canadian imports into the U.S. capture a significant share (approximately 33%) of the U.S. lumber market. A U.S. industry coalition believes the Canadian government, which owns most of the timberlands in Canada, provides unfair subsidies by selling timber at below market prices. Prior to 2002, a trade agreement with Canada limited imports of lumber into the United States. Since May 2002, the U.S. has imposed duties on Canadian imports. Near the end of 2006, the U.S. and Canadian governments reached a negotiated settlement. Under the terms of the settlement, approximately $4 billion of the previously collected $5 billion in duties were refunded to Canadian lumber producers. Furthermore, the previously imposed duties were replaced with a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions. It is too early to tell if the new system of excise taxes and volume restrictions will significantly impact lumber imports from Canada and therefore favorably impact the demand for sawlogs. REAL ESTATE SALES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES We estimate that included in our 8.2 million acres of timberlands are approximately 1.7 million acres of higher and better use timberlands and about 400,000 acres of non strategic timberlands. The higher and better use timberlands are expected to be sold over the next 15 years for residential, recreational or conservation purposes. The non strategic timberlands are expected to be sold over the next five years. Included within the 1.7 million acres of higher and better use timberlands are approximately 225,000 acres that will be developed either internally or through joint ventures. During 2006, we sold approximately 60,000 acres of non strategic timberlands and approximately 23,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties. We expect to significantly increase the number of acres we sell in 2007 in both of these categories. Sales are expected to remain at this higher level in future years; however, the mix between non strategic timberland 10K 27 Table of Contents sales and higher and better use / recreational property sales could change. Furthermore, in 2007 our average price per acre for non strategic timberlands is likely to be lower than the price per acre we realized during 2006. Also, due to mix considerations, our average price per acre for higher and better use / recreational property sales are expected to be lower than the price per acre we realized during 2006. We continued to grow our land development business during 2006. We have identified 95,000 acres with an estimated 125 properties that we expect to develop internally over the next 15 years. At December 31, 2006, we had 13 internal development properties entitled and an additional 32 in the planning process. Revenue from sales of development properties was $65 million during 2006, which included revenue of $43 million from one sale we had been working on for several years. We are continuing to build a portfolio of internal development projects we can bring to the market and expect to reach our level of sustained sales either in the second half of 2007 or 2008. Our development business is conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. Additionally, we have identified 130,000 acres that we expect to develop through joint ventures. We have entered into six joint venture arrangements covering approximately 26,000 acres. We do not expect significant revenues from these joint venture arrangements during 2007. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain protective rights. We expect to enter into additional joint venture arrangements during 2007. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2006, we harvested a total of 21.0 million tons compared to a total of 19.2 million tons during 2005. The 9% increase in harvest levels is due primarily to our November 2005 acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan and a temporary increase in harvest levels to capture favorable log prices, especially during the first half of 2006. We expect harvest levels during 2007 to range between 19.5 and 20.5 million tons. However, future harvest levels may vary from historic levels due to weak markets, to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut contracts and lump sum sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Contracts. Pay as cut contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to harvest all of the timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree. 10K 28 Table of Contents (3) Lump sum Sale Agreements. Under a lump sum sale agreement, the buyer and seller agree to a total (lump sum) price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally, the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. Title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is harvested. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise, which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract (usually 12 to 18 months) is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Since revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the timber is cut, we estimate the amount of revenue to recognize each month based on actual harvested volume compared to the total volume available for harvest according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer reporting how much volume has been harvested. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the timber volume harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume harvested is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to the total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. Finally, for our larger lump sum contracts, which cover multiple tracts, we adjust revenues at the end of each accounting period for any known trends in the tracts that have been completely harvested. For lump sum contracts completed during the past twelve quarters, our largest quarterly adjustment to record the difference between estimated lump sum revenues and actual revenues has been $0.6 million. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2006 2005 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 666 $ 626 Pay as cut sales $ 57 $ 61 Lump sum sales $ 55 $ 47 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately one third of our timber sales consists of either pay as cut contracts or lump sum sales. Since under both pay as cut contracts and lump sum sales the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is significantly higher in our Southern Resources Segment. (4) Real Estate Sales. We estimate that included in the companys approximately 8.2 million acres of timberlands are about 1.7 million acres of higher and better use timberlands, which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for residential, recreational or conservation purposes. In addition, the company has approximately 400,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. In the meantime, these timberlands continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the availability of government and not for profit funding, the general state of the economy, the ability to obtain entitlements, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation and the timing of harvesting activities. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2006, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 58%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because no book basis is allocated to this type of revenue. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have lower operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. 10K 29 Table of Contents In connection with major timberland acquisitions we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all the acres acquired, except when we can specifically identify properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, we estimate the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The cash flows are discounted at the risk free rates of interest. Future cash flow estimates are based on probability weighted projections for a range of possible outcomes. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. We have grown substantially through acquisitions in recent years. The purchase price of these acquisitions has been allocated to our Timber and Timberlands (including Assets Held for Sale and Real Estate Development Properties) and Property, Plant and Equipment. The allocation of the purchase price in a business combination is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 8.2 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into eight geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and eight geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our ten manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2006, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $2 million. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $1 million in 2005 and $21 million during 2004 in connection with timberlands held for sale (see Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements.) We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is probable that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. 10K 30 Table of Contents In accordance with SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is generally not recorded until management has concluded that it is probable (i.e., likely) that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently being actively marketed, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are being actively marketed and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management has concluded it is likely the property will be sold within 12 months based on its best estimate of fair value. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized an impairment loss of $9 million in connection with one of our lumber mills due to a declining supply of logs. The availability of logs in close proximity to our mills has been declining and is expected to decline further in the future. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our ten manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines more than expected, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. 10K 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2006 2005 Depletion Expense Northern Resources Segment $ 26 $ 20 Southern Resources SegmentA 56 51 Total depletion expense $ 82 $ 71 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 3.82 $ 3.65 Southern Resources Segment $ 3.95 $ 3.75 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 55 $ 57 Southern Resources SegmentB $ 434 $ 407 Estimated future volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 329 329 Southern Resources SegmentC 435 452 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in depletion expense for a 10%: Increase in estimated future silviculture costsD Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.3 $ 1.2 Decrease in estimated future volumeE Northern Resources Segment $ 2.9 $ 2.2 Southern Resources Segment $ 6.2 $ 5.7 A Depletion expense for 2005 includes a $2 million loss, representing the book basis of timber volume destroyed as a result of severe winds from Hurricane Katrina. B Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs and more acres treated. C Decrease in estimated future volumes from 2005 is due primarily to the timing of replanting timber stands following final harvest. D Assumes future timber volumes do not change. E Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. DEFERRED INCOME TAXES Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level income tax if it distributes 100% of its taxable income to shareholders and satisfies other organizational and operational requirements as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If a company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. 10K 32 Table of Contents As a consequence of the October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company, which involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger with The Timber Company within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent that the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. Built in gains tax is generally not payable on dispositions of property to the extent the proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. The built in gains tax does not apply to income generated from the harvesting and sale of timber. In connection with our merger with The Timber Company, we wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability relates to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2006, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $1 million due to the payment of tax in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we remeasure the amount of deferred income taxes needed in connection with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax each quarterly reporting period. In 2005, we reduced the deferred tax liability to $5 million and correspondingly recorded a deferred tax benefit of $5 million. Based on projected timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax for the period December 31, 2006 to October 6, 2011, and our ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties, we estimate we need a deferred tax liability of $5 million. As a result, no adjustment to the deferred tax liability associated with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax was made in 2006. It is likely that actual timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax over the ten year period will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. The company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)) effective January 1, 2006. See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Grants of both value management awards and dividend equivalents represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities under SFAS No. 123(R). As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period for both value management awards and dividend equivalents will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period to be based on the fair value of value management awards and dividend equivalents as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation costs for value management awards and dividend equivalents are based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period. Fair values for value management awards and dividend equivalents are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Groups is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole), risk free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. Additionally, the fair value of dividend equivalents assumes that our current quarterly dividend of the companys common stock of $0.42 per share will remain constant through the end of the performance period. 10K 33 Table of Contents The fair value liability for outstanding value management awards and dividend equivalents at December 31, 2006 was $10 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months worked during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2006 could range between $7 million and $17 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), we could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards and dividend equivalents during the quarter. PENSIONS Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits generally vest after five years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year treasury bond rate. Furthermore, employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. Generally, we intend to fund our qualified pension plan annually by either the value of the benefits earned during the year or, if more, the amount such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (ABO, the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plan. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2006 2005 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount rateA 5.90 % 5.75% Rate of compensation increaseC 3.70 % 3.70% Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount rate 5.75 % 5.75% Expected long term return on plan assetsB 7.75 % 7.75% Rate of compensation increaseC 3.70 % 3.70% A The December 31, 2006, discount rate was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2006, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2006. B The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. C The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. 10K 34 Table of Contents It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2006 2005 Key Financial Measures Pension expense $ 8 $ 9 Cash pension plan contributions qualified plan 5 9 Cash grantor trust funding supplemental plans 1 2 Current accrued pension liabilityA 3 Non current accrued pension liabilityA 31 17 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in pension expense for every 0.25 percentage point: decrease in long term rate of return on plan assets $ 0.2 $ 0.2 decrease in weighted average discount rate 0.7 0.7 increase in rate of increase in compensation levels 0.2 0.2 Increase in qualified pension funding for every 0.25 percentagepoint decrease in weighted average discount rate $ 3.7 $ 3.7 A We adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans (SFAS No. 158) on December 31, 2006. Under SFAS No. 158, we are required to recognize the funded status for our defined benefit plans in our December 31, 2006, Consolidated Balance Sheet. Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 5.90% for 2007 and 6.20% for 2008 and beyond, and a 3.70% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project that our annual pension expense for 2007 and 2008 will be approximately $8 million each and for 2009 and 2010 will be $9 million each. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to be approximately $5 million annually through 2009 and $6 million in 2010. Given the well funded nature of the plan, we believe the Pension Protection Act of 2006 will not have a material affect on our funding requirements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. As of December 31, 2006, the company has entered into six joint venture agreements with land developers covering approximately 26,000 acres. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain protective rights. The company also has an insignificant equity investment in an unconsolidated entity. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnership, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. During the second quarter of 2006, we entered into two treasury lock arrangements to secure current long term interest rates in connection with our issuance of $225 million of senior notes due 2015. See Note 6 of the Notes to Financial Statements. These transactions were settled for a net gain of $0.9 million. In November 2006, the company entered into a purchase commitment to supply natural gas to our manufacturing facilities, which expires in March 2007. The contract, which is a derivative, was designated as a normal purchase under the terms of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities. As of December 31, 2006, the companys remaining purchase obligation under this contract was $0.8 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. 10K 35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2006 (in millions): Payment Due By Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years Long term debtA $ 2,938 $ 239 $ 548 $ 1,214 $ 937 Operating lease obligations 27 5 8 5 9 Timber obligations 10 1 2 2 5 Long term incentive plans 10 4 6 Purchase obligationsB 39 31 8 Other long term liabilitiesC Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,024 $ 280 $ 572 $ 1,221 $ 951 A In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt of $114 million (Less than one year), $201 million (1 3 years), $154 million (3 5 years), and $144 million (More than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of principal is included. Interest expense related to our line of credit was $10 million in 2006. B Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $13 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $5 million for contract services for freight and logging, $5 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $4 million for real estate commitments, and $3 million for reforestation and silviculture. C We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2006, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $9 million, deferred compensation obligations of $8 million, non qualified pension obligations of $23 million (including $3 million classified as a current liability), and qualified pension obligations of $11 million. We expect to fund approximately $3 million for workers compensation payments in 2007. We have made contributions to our qualified pension plan such that the fair value of the pension plan assets at December 31, 2006, exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. As a result of this funding level, there are no qualified pension funding obligations at December 31, 2006. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2006, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $8 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2006, the fair value of assets in the other grantor trust and the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $19 million each. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. See Notes 8 and 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results HARVEST PLANS We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to almost 1,000,000 acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by both our planned sales of non strategic and higher and better use timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. 10K 36 Table of Contents Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were 6.8 million tons (60% sawlogs and 40% pulpwood) during 2006 and 5.4 million tons (66% sawlogs and 34% pulpwood) during 2005. Our harvest levels and change in mix were due primarily to our acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberland in Michigan during the fourth quarter of 2005. Excluding the Michigan timberlands, our harvest levels were 5.9 million tons (65% sawlogs and 35% pulpwood) during 2006. We expect harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2007 to decrease between 7% and 13% from 2006; however, the log mix is expected to remain consistent with 2006. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 14.1 million tons (47% sawlogs and 53% pulpwood) during 2006 and 13.8 million tons (51% sawlogs and 49% pulpwood) during 2005. In 2007, we expect harvest levels will be flat to 4% lower from 2006 and the log mix in the Southern Resources Segment is expected to remain consistent with 2006. U.S. CANADA SOFTWOOD LUMBER AGREEMENT Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. A trade agreement concerning lumber imports between the U.S. and Canada expired in March 2001. Soon thereafter, a U.S. industry coalition, of which Plum Creek is a member, submitted anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions to the International Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce alleging that Canadian lumber exports to the U.S. were unfairly subsidized and that lumber from Canada was being dumped into the U.S. market. In response to these petitions, the U.S. Department of Commerce imposed both countervailing and anti dumping duties. Canada appealed the imposition of these duties to both NAFTA and the WTO. On October 13, 2006, a definitive agreement was signed establishing a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions that will be in effect for a period of seven years. Generally, the agreement provides that no import restrictions would be imposed on Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S. when the published composite price for lumber is higher than $355 (per thousand board feet). Below that level, a tiered export tax would be triggered. The impact of the taxes could be mitigated by fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. and Canadian dollars. Notwithstanding the signing of a definitive agreement between the U.S. and Canadian governments, there can be no assurance that the agreement will effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. COMPARABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PERIODS Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During 2006, we acquired 98,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon. During 2005, we acquired 754,000 acres of timberlands, located in Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida. During 2004, we acquired 78,000 acres of timberlands located in Arkansas and Maine. We sold approximately 112,000 acres of timberlands in 2006, 232,000 acres in 2005, and 377,000 acres in 2004. As a result of these timberland acquisitions and dispositions, our ownership was 8.2 million acres at December 31, 2006, 8.2 million acres at December 31, 2005, and 7.8 million acres at December 31, 2004. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. 10K 37 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2006 2005 2004 Northern Resources $ 105 $ 99 $ 97 Southern Resources 178 217 203 Real Estate 178 136 149 Manufactured Products 22 29 56 Other 16 13 9 Total Segment Operating Income 499 494 514 Other Costs & Eliminations (53) (48) (42) Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement 14 Other Operating Income (Expense), net 1 2 5 Operating Income $ 461 $ 448 $ 477 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $66 million, or 19%, to $413 million in 2006. Excluding revenues associated with our November 2005 acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan (Michigan acquisition), revenues increased by $21 million, or 6%, to $364 million. This increase of $21 million was due primarily to higher harvest levels ($37 million), offset in part by lower softwood sawlog prices ($6 million) and a weaker product mix from log sales ($5 million). Harvest levels increased by approximately 11% over the prior years harvest levels of 5.4 million tons due primarily to a temporary increase in harvest levels to take advantage of favorable log prices, especially during the first half of 2006. Softwood sawlog prices during 2006 were 2% lower than during 2005; however, softwood sawlog prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 9% lower than during the same period in the prior year. The lower prices are primarily due to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices and the significant decline in housing starts. The weaker product mix (higher percentage of pulpwood sales and lower percentage of sawlog sales) is primarily due to the temporary increase in the harvesting of hardwood pulpwood stands to take advantage of favorable log prices. Excluding the impact of our Michigan acquisition, operating income was 25% of its revenues for 2006, and 29% for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to higher per ton log and haul rates and lower softwood sawlog prices. Segment costs and expenses increased by $60 million, or 24%, to $308 million. Excluding costs and expenses associated with our Michigan acquisition, costs and expenses increased by $27 million, or 11%, to $272 million. This increase of $27 million was due primarily to higher log and haul and depletion cost ($19 million) as a result of higher harvest levels and higher per ton log and haul rates ($8 million). Log and haul rates increased by approximately 4% due to higher fuel costs and longer hauling distances. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $22 million, or 4%, to $479 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to a weaker product mix from log sales ($14 million) and lower sawlog prices ($11 million). During 2005, we substantially completed the conversion of numerous natural stands to plantations in order to improve growth rates. As a result of this conversion, our product mix has changed whereby the percentage of large diameter sawlogs harvested during 2006 has decreased and the percentage of small diameter sawlogs and pulpwood harvested has increased. Sawlog prices during 2006 were 3% lower than during 2005; however, sawlog prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 10% lower than during the same period in the prior year. The lower prices are primarily due to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices and the significant decline in housing starts. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 37% of its revenues for 2006, and 43% for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to a lower percentage of high value sawlogs in the sales mix, lower sawlog prices, and higher per ton log and haul rates. Segment costs and expenses increased by $17 million, or 6%, to $301 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to higher log and haul cost per ton ($11 million). Log and haul rates increased by approximately 7% due to higher fuel costs and longer hauling distances. 10K 38 Table of Contents Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Property AcresSold Revenues(Millions) RevenuePerAcre AcresSold Revenues(Millions) Revenue Per Acre Small Non Strategic 60,095 $ 96 $ 1,585 148,200 $ 160 $ 1,075 Large Non Strategic 40,000 31 780 Conservation 24,385 41 1,695 22,600 26 1,151 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 22,770 93 4,070 21,000 59 2,814 Development Properties 4,325 65 15,125 200 3 14,500 Conservation Easements N/A 13 885 N/A 13 450 Total 111,575 $ 308 232,000 $ 292 Revenues increased by $16 million to $308 million in 2006. This increase is due primarily to the sale of development properties ($62 million), the timing and location of sales of higher and better use properties ($34 million) and conservation properties ($15 million), offset in part by a decrease in the sales of small non strategic properties ($64 million) and no large, non strategic timberland sales during 2006 ($31 million). The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Development properties revenue increased in 2006 due primarily to the sale of a large development project for proceeds of $43 million and the continued expansion of our real estate development business. This large development, which the company has been working on for several years, consisted of approximately 1,900 acres of land in King County, Washington. (See Part I, Item 1. Business, Real Estate Segment for a summary of internal development properties and joint venture arrangements.) Average price per acre for small non strategic land sales was $1,585 during 2006 compared to $1,075 per acre during 2005. Compared to prices realized during 2006, the majority of our remaining small non strategic acres will likely have a lower price per acre. Average price per acre for higher and better use / recreational land sales was $4,070 during 2006 compared to $2,814 per acre during 2005. Due to increased competition in several of our markets with the highest per acre prices for our higher and better use / recreational properties, we may shift our sales mix to regions that tend to have lower per acre prices for our higher and better use / recreational properties. As a result, during 2007, we expect that our higher and better use / recreational properties will have a lower average price per acre. Each year we adjust our sales mix to capture value in the strongest markets. The company employs an ongoing process designed to identify the long term best use for each of its properties to guide the investment and management decisions on each property. Currently, our 8.2 million acres includes 6.1 million acres of core timberlands, approximately 400,000 acres of timberlands considered to be non strategic, and 1.7 million acres of timberlands with higher value for uses other than growing timber. The non strategic timberlands generally consist of small tracts and are expected to be sold over the next five years. The 1.7 million acres with higher value are further segmented into three categories: conservation (500,000 acres); recreation and higher and better use properties (1,000,000 acres); and those properties we expect to develop (225,000 acres) through a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary. The higher value properties, located throughout our ownership, may be sold over approximately the next 15 years. The companys evaluation of the best economic use and future plans for its timberlands will change as markets for timber and alternative land uses evolve. As these changes occur, additional core timberlands may be categorized as conservation, higher and better use, or development properties. Until these properties are sold, they will continue to be used productively in our business of growing and selling timber. We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2007 to range between $330 million and $350 million from the sale of 150,000 to 190,000 acres. We estimate these sales will consist of 80,000 to 100,000 acres of non strategic acres, 4,000 to 8,000 acres of development and joint venture acres and the remainder from the sales of higher and better use and conservation acres. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 58% for the period ended December 31, 2006, compared to 47% for the same period in 2005. This increase was due primarily to selling a greater percentage of lower value timberlands during 2005, including 40,000 acres of large, non strategic timberlands that were sold for a nominal gain. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $26 million to $130 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to 10K 39 Table of Contents selling fewer acres during 2006 ($58 million), offset in part by higher costs associated with our development business ($34 million). Costs associated with our development business were $44 million for 2006 compared to $10 million in 2005, with approximately half of the development business costs in 2006 associated with the large project sold in King County, Washington. The remainder of the increase in development costs was due to higher staffing levels, basis and selling costs for lot sales, and investigatory and feasibility costs in connection with the expansion of this business. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $11 million, or 2%, to $493 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($4 million), lower lumber sales volume ($16 million), and lower plywood sales volume ($10 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($13 million) and higher MDF sales volume ($3 million). Lumber sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of a declining log supply and weak lumber prices. Lumber prices for 2006 were 5% lower than during 2005; however, lumber prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 11% lower than during the same period in the prior year due to the sharp decline in housing starts. Housing starts in the U.S. during 2006 were 12% lower compared to 2005. Plywood sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to a declining supply of high grade plywood logs in the region and increased competition from commodity plywood mills. Plywood prices for 2006 were slightly higher than 2005; however, plywood prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 8% lower than during the fourth quarter of 2005. This price decline was due primarily to increased competition from commodity plywood producers which have targeted sales to industrial customers as a result of the slow down in home construction. MDF prices increased an average of 9% for all of 2006 due primarily to a mix shift to higher value products and supply constraints due to recent North America mill closures. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was 5% of its revenues for 2006 and 6% for 2005. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $4 million, or 1%, to $471 million in 2006. This decrease of $4 million was due primarily to lower lumber sales volume ($12 million) and lower plywood sales volume ($9 million), offset in part by higher plywood manufacturing costs ($8 million) and higher MDF raw material costs ($9 million). Plywood manufacturing costs increased due primarily to the increased costs associated with manufacturing higher value products. MDF raw material costs increased due primarily to higher resin (due to higher energy costs) and wood fiber (due to regional fiber shortage) costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $53 million in 2006, compared to a decrease of $48 million in 2005. This increase of $5 million was due primarily to increased costs associated with information technology, strategic business development, and financial and tax reporting. Other Costs and Eliminations increased by 10% during 2006 and are expected to increase by another 10% in 2007 for similar reasons. Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement. In 2006, a definitive agreement was signed between the U.S. and Canadian governments to settle the long standing dispute over Canadian lumber imports. Under the terms of the agreement, approximately $500 million of deposits collected by the U.S. was paid to members of the U.S. industry coalition. As a member of the coalition, we received a pro rata share of these funds totaling $14 million ($13 million, net of tax). Interest Expense, net. Interest expense (net of interest income) increased $24 million, or 22%, to $133 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the issuance of $300 million of senior notes in connection with our November 2005 Michigan timberland acquisition and our repurchase of approximately 7.5 million shares of common stock for $263 million in 2006. The share repurchase was funded by using a combination of cash and debt financing. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $13 million for 2006 compared to $8 million for 2005. This change of $5 million is due primarily to a remeasurement of our Deferred Tax Liability in 2005, which reduced tax expense for 2005 by $5 million. This remeasurement was related to projected sales of timberlands that are subject to built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011, that were acquired in connection with our merger with The Timber Company. In addition to corporate level income tax on certain non REIT activities conducted through various wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, the company is subject to built in gains tax on certain property dispositions as a consequence of our October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company. Our merger with The Timber Company involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, and as a result, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level income tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger within the ten year period following the merger date. However, the tax is generally not payable to the extent proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. 10K 40 Table of Contents In connection with our merger with The Timber Company, we wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability relates to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2006, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $1 million due to the payment of tax in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we remeasure the amount of deferred income taxes needed in connection with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax each quarterly reporting period. In 2005, we reduced our deferred tax liability associated with timber and timberlands by $5 million and correspondingly recorded a deferred tax benefit of $5 million. Based on projected timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax for the period December 31, 2006 to October 6, 2011, and our ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties, we estimate we need a deferred tax liability of approximately $5 million. As a result, no adjustment to the deferred tax liability associated with built in gains tax was made in 2006. 2005 COMPARED TO 2004 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $22 million, or 7%, to $347 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to higher harvest volume ($12 million) and higher product prices ($11 million). The increase in volume is due primarily to harvesting on timberlands acquired during the past several years, stronger log demand due to new mills, and an increase of harvest levels in certain markets to take advantage of favorable log prices. Revenues in 2005 included $4 million from the harvesting of 85,000 tons associated with our acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan during November of 2005. Sawlog prices increased by 3% ($8 million) due primarily to higher demand for logs as a result of increased lumber production and a limited supply of logs. Pulpwood prices increased by 8% ($5 million) due primarily to low log inventories. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 29% of its revenues for 2005 and 30% for 2004. Segment costs and expenses increased by $20 million, or 9%, to $248 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to higher per ton log and haul rates ($12 million) and higher harvest volume. Log and haul cost on a per ton basis increased by 7% due primarily to higher fuel costs. Segment expenses in 2005 included $3 million as a result of our harvesting on recently acquired timberlands in Michigan. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $42 million, or 9%, to $501 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber ($19 million), higher harvest volume ($11 million) and higher softwood sawlog prices ($7 million). Revenues increased $19 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. A portion of the increase in delivered log sales is by way of decreasing the percentage of standing timber sales. Under its delivered log sale agreements, the company is responsible for log and haul costs. When standing timber is sold, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs. The company sells logs on a delivered basis when, in managements judgment, log merchandising efforts will yield a premium over selling stumpage. While revenues are higher when the company is responsible for the logging and hauling of timber, a large portion of that increase in revenue is to cover the related increase in cost of sales. As a result, on delivered log sales the company realizes lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, even though operating income is generally improved. Harvest volume increased due to favorable harvesting conditions during most of 2005 and a planned increase in harvest levels. The planned increase in harvest levels is the result of an increased percentage of maturing timber on our southern timberlands. Softwood sawlog prices increased temporarily during the first half of 2005 due primarily to a weather related shortage of logs. Several of our customers had low log inventories at the end of 2004 due to wet weather during the second half of 2004, and as a result, offered higher prices in order to rebuild log decks. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 43% of its revenues for 2005 and 44% for 2004. Southern Resources Segment costs and expenses increased by $28 million, or 11%, to $284 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to an increase in log and haul costs as a result of a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber, increased harvesting volume, and higher fuel costs. The per ton rate increase for log and haul costs, which increased costs and expenses by $11 million, was due primarily to higher fuel costs. 10K 41 Table of Contents In 2005, approximately 350,000 acres of our timberlands in Mississippi were impacted by severe winds from Hurricane Katrina. As a result, we recorded a $2 million loss in 2005, which represents the book basis for approximately 600,000 tons of timber that was destroyed. Following Hurricane Katrina, we began salvaging timber that was blown down but not destroyed. For 2005, operating income was reduced by $1 million due to higher logging costs from our salvage operations. Real Estate Segment. 2005 2004 Property AcresSold Revenues(Millions) RevenuePer Acre AcresSold Revenues(Millions) RevenuePer Acre Small Non Strategic 148,200 $ 160 $ 1,075 34,000 $ 42 $ 1,230 Large Non Strategic 40,000 31 780 255,000 133 520 Conservation 22,600 26 1,151 65,000 73 1,125 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 21,000 59 2,814 21,100 52 2,450 Development Properties 200 3 14,500 50 3 61,000 Conservation Easements N/A 13 450 N/A Total 232,000 $ 292 375,150 $ 303 Revenues decreased by $11 million to $292 million in 2005. Excluding revenues from the large, non strategic timberland sales, revenues increased $91 million to $261 million for 2005, compared to $170 million for 2004. This increase is due primarily to an increase in land sales activity as the company executes its strategy of selling non strategic timberlands. Large, non strategic timberland sales excluded, the sales of our conservation and small non strategic timberlands accounted for approximately 90% of the acres sold during 2005 compared to 82% of the acres sold during 2004. Higher and better use timberland sales represented approximately 10% of the acres sold during 2005 compared to 18% of the acres sold during 2004. Real Estate Segment operating income was 47% of its revenues for 2005, compared to 49% for 2004. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $2 million to $156 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to an increase in land sales activity associated with small parcels of non strategic timberlands ($28 million, primarily land basis) and an increase in costs associated with development activities ($7 million), offset in part by a decrease in large, non strategic timberland sales ($34 million, primarily land basis). Costs associated with our real estate development activities increased to $10 million in 2005 compared to $3 million in 2004 due primarily to new costs (e.g. investigatory, appraisals, feasibility studies, environmental and engineering studies, market analysis) associated with our expanding real estate development business. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $14 million, or 3%, to $504 million in 2005. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($11 million), lower plywood prices ($9 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($10 million). Despite the highest level of U.S. housing starts since 1972 (U.S. housing starts during 2005 were 5.6% higher than housing starts during 2004), lumber prices decreased by 7% due primarily to increased lumber production and imports. U.S. lumber production during the first eleven months of 2005 was 4% higher than the same period in 2004 due to start up of new mills and capacity expansions at existing mills. Furthermore, lumber imports from Canada during the first eleven months of 2005 increased by 2% over the same period in 2004, and offshore imports (Europe and Latin America) increased by 28%, due primarily to the strength of the U.S. economy and weak foreign markets. Plywood prices decreased by 7% due primarily to the increase in North America structural panels (plywood and oriented strand board) production capacity and offshore imports. During 2005, North America structural panel production capacity has increased by approximately one billion square feet, or approximately 3% of the annual U.S. structural panel consumption. During 2005, offshore imports (primarily Latin America) increased 32% over 2004 amounts. MDF prices increased 6% due primarily to improved demand and a richer production mix. MDF demand has increased due to strong housing starts and improved repair and remodeling markets. During the first half of 2004, we resolved all of our start up issues associated with our new MDF thin board line and, as a result, have increased the percentage of higher margin products we produce. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was 6% of its revenues for 2005 and 11% for 2004. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices and higher energy and raw material costs. Manufactured Products Segment 10K 42 Table of Contents costs and expenses increased by $13 million, or 3%, to $475 million in 2005. This increase was due primarily to higher log costs and higher energy prices. Log costs have increased due primarily to a declining supply of logs in Montana and favorable lumber and plywood prices. Energy costs, including the impact on resin prices, have increased by $5 million over the prior year. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $48 million in 2005, compared to a decrease of $42 million in 2004. This increase of $6 million was due primarily to higher corporate overhead associated with accounting and timber and timberland systems, and corporate compliance. Other Operating Income (Expense), net. During 2004, we sold our working interest in our coalbed methane gas joint operating agreement to Geomet, Inc. for $27 million and recorded a gain of $5 million. Interest Expense, net. Net interest expense decreased by $2 million to $109 million for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to the replacement of high interest rate debt with lower interest rate debt. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $8 million for 2005 compared to $27 million for 2004. This decrease of $19 million is due primarily to a $27 million decline in the operating income of the Manufacturing Products Segment (resulting in a lower tax expense of $11 million), a $5 million remeasurement of our Deferred Tax Liability, and the $5 million gain we recognized during the second quarter of 2004 from the sale of our coalbed methane gas working interest (resulting in a higher tax expense in the prior year of $2 million). See Note 4 of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the remeasurement of our Deferred Tax Liability. Gain on Sale of Properties, net of tax. In December 2004, the company sold certain subsurface property rights (primarily coal reserves, excluding coalbed methane, oil and gas reserves) in Buchanan County, Virginia. The net gain, after reducing the proceeds for applicable book basis and income taxes, was $23 million. During the first quarter of 2005, the company sold its remaining coal reserves for a total gain of $20 million, net of selling costs and applicable income taxes. The company also sold other industrial mineral assets during the fourth quarter of 2005 for a total gain of $3 million, net of tax. Financial Condition and Liquidity 2006 2005 2004 SOURCES OF CASH: Operations $ 527 $ 552 $ 594 Changes in Working Capital 29 (36) (12) Cash from Stock Option Exercises 7 9 12 Cash from Other Asset Sales 2 29 46 Increase Debt Obligations, net 93 341 Other Cash Changes, net 2 (3) (1) Total Sources of Cash $ 660 $ 892 $ 639 USES OF CASH: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends $ (290) $ (279) $ (260) Common Stock Repurchases (263) (1) Reinvest in the Business: Capital Expenditures (92) (89) (70) Acquire Timberlands (111) (501) (66) Reduce Debt Obligations, net (181) Total Uses of Cash (756) (870) (577) Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (96) $ 22 $ 62 Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $556 million, compared to $516 million in 2005. The increase of $40 million was due primarily to a $65 million decrease in working capital, primarily as a result of a $51 million positive change related to the timing of when proceeds from a like kind exchange trust are either reinvested in replacement property (primarily timberlands) or distributed to the company. Proceeds associated with a forward like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days, or if the 10K 43 Table of Contents exchange is not successful, are distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. During 2006, we received proceeds from an unsuccessful like kind exchange while during 2005 we had numerous real estate sales in which the proceeds were held in a like kind exchange trust as of December 31, 2005. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled $516 million, compared to $582 million in 2004. The decrease of $66 million was due primarily to a $27 million decrease in operating income from our manufacturing facilities and a $24 million increase in working capital. The increase in working capital was due primarily to an increase in like kind exchange proceeds held in escrow. Debt Financing. In April 2006, the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement under which Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and under which Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership, may from time to time, offer and sell debt securities. The shelf registration statement expires on April 25, 2009. On May 2, 2006, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. issued off the shelf registration statement $225 million aggregate principal amount of its senior notes with a coupon rate of 5.875%, at a market price of 96.686% of the principal amount. The notes mature in 2015 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. The net proceeds of $216 million were used primarily to repay outstanding debt maturing during 2006. On June 29, 2006, the company terminated its previous $650 million revolving line of credit maturing in January 2009 and entered into a new $750 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures in June 2011. The revolving line of credit may be increased to $1 billion subject to certain terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 5.79%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $750 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2006, we had $581 million of borrowings and $5 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $164 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 5, 2007, $243 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. In November of 2005, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. issued $300 million aggregate principal notes with a coupon rate of 5.875% at a market price of 99.731% of the principal amount. The notes, issued under a previous shelf registration statement, mature in 2015. The net proceeds of $297 million were used primarily to acquire 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan, valued at $345 million. The transaction was also by funded by $87 million of like kind exchange funds. The companys borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). The borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. Furthermore, our line of credit requires that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. The company was in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2006. The companys financial policy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, for 2006 were $92 million (including $6 million in real estate development expenditures) compared to $89 million in 2005 and $70 million for 2004. During 2006, Plum Creek acquired approximately 98,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Oregon for $111 million with funds from tax deferred exchange transactions and from use of our line of credit. During 2005, Plum Creek acquired approximately 754,000 acres of timberlands located in Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida for $501 million with funds from 10K 44 Table of Contents tax deferred exchange transactions, debt and funds from operations. During 2004, Plum Creek acquired approximately 78,000 acres of timberlands located primarily in Arkansas and Maine for $66 million with funds from operations and funds from tax deferred exchange transactions. Planned capital expenditures for 2007, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $95 million and $105 million and include approximately $65 million for our timberlands, $15 million for real estate development investments, $12 million for our manufacturing facilities, and $10 million for investments in information technology to support growth in our Real Estate Segment. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 50% of planned capital expenditures are discretionary in 2007. Discretionary expenditures consist primarily of silviculture, land development, and information technology investments. Other capital expenditures consist primarily of reforestation and projects at our manufacturing facilities to sustain operating activities and improve safety. Included within the planned capital expenditures for our manufacturing facilities for 2007 is approximately an $8 million investment to expand our bio filter emissions control equipment at our MDF facilities to comply with stricter environmental standards that become effective October 1, 2008. Equity. On February 6, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $74 million, which will be paid on March 2, 2007, to stockholders of record on February 16, 2007. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. In October 2002, the Board of Directors authorized a $200 million share repurchase program. In June 2006, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $200 million to be used for the share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2006, the company had repurchased approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock for a total cost of $307 million at an average price of $32.26 per share. Of these totals, 7.5 million shares at a total cost of $263 million, or an average cost per share of $35.16, were repurchased in 2006. The company is authorized to repurchase an additional $93 million of its common stock. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures and interest payments on our indebtedness through the end of 2007. In 2007, the company has $123 million of scheduled long term debt principal payment requirements. The company intends to refinance the 2007 principal payments at the time of maturity with the use of a combination of short term and long term borrowings, depending on interest rate and market conditions. Management believes that the companys credit ratings, asset base and historical financial performance will allow these refinancings to be completed at attractive interest rates. Other Information SFAS No. 158. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post Retirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires entities to recognize the funded status of their defined benefit pension plans in the balance sheet, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets less the projected benefit obligation. Any resulting asset or liability will be fully recognized in the balance sheet. SFAS No. 158 also requires the actuarial measurement date to be at the end of the entitys fiscal year and expanded disclosure in the footnotes to the financial statements. SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006 for entities with publicly traded equity securities, and requires prospective application, with the initial recognition of the funded status being recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. The company adopted SFAS No. 158 on December 31, 2006. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 158, the company recorded a $14 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax of $5 million. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. SAB 108. In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108), which provides interpretive guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying 10K 45 Table of Contents current year misstatements for the purpose of a materiality assessment. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. The adoption of this standard at December 31, 2006 did not have an impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 157. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The company will adopt SFAS No. 157 in the first quarter of 2008. The Company is in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on the consolidated financial statements. FIN 48. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). In summary, FIN 48 requires that all tax positions subject to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, be analyzed using a two step approach. The first step requires an entity to determine if a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. In the second step, the tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with any adjustment in a companys tax provision being accounted for as a cumulative effect of accounting change in beginning equity. The company adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Approximately $1.7 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 THERE AFTER TOTAL FAIRVALUEA DECEMBER 31, 2006 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 424 $ 796 $ 1,749 $ 1,795 Average interest rateC 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.8 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.0 % Variable rate debtD $ 581 $ 581 $ 581 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 THERE AFTER TOTAL FAIRVALUEB DECEMBER 31, 2005 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 157 $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 994 $ 1,680 $ 1,776 Average interest rate 7.2 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.3 % Variable rate debt $ 50 $ 495 $ 545 $ 545 A The increase in the fair value of fixed rate debt from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 was due primarily to issuance of $225 million in senior notes in May of 2006, partially offset by repayment of $157 million of fixed rate borrowings during 2006 and higher interest rates at December 31, 2006 compared to 2005. B Excludes unamortized discount of $7 million at December 31, 2006 and unamortized premium of $4 million at December 31, 2005. C Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt outstanding at the end of the period. D As of December 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on the $581 million of borrowings under our $750 million revolving line of credit was 5.79%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. 10K 46 Table of Contents 
 
