ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview 2007 OPERATING PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO 2006 Operating income decreased by $37 million to $424 million in 2007. Our results reflect the weakness in U.S. residential construction markets, which had the fewest new housing starts since 1991. Operating income from our Manufactured Products Segment decreased by $20 million to $2 million. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices. We were also negatively impacted by higher MDF raw material costs, which further reduced operating margins. Weak demand from lumber and plywood mills caused operating income for both of our Timber Segments to decline. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment decreased by $47 million to $58 million in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices and a planned reduction in harvest levels. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $17 million to $161 million due primarily to a combination of weaker sawlog prices and a decline in the diameter of sawlogs we sold. Operating income from our Real Estate Segment increased by $72 million to $250 million. Excluding operating income from a large, non strategic timberland sale in Wisconsin, operating income increased by $29 million. This increase was due primarily to selling more acres (higher and better use/recreational and small non strategic properties) in 2007. 28 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 During 2006, we received settlement payments of $14 million ($13 million net of tax) from the Canadian Softwood Lumber dispute. This one time gain was included in 2006 operating income. Our 2007 earnings were also negatively impacted by higher interest expense. Interest expense increased by $14 million, or 11%, to $147 million. This increase was due primarily to increased borrowings to fund the repurchase of common stock and timberland acquisitions. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR TIMBER AND MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS BUSINESS Our operating performance for the Timber and Manufactured Products Segments is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Selected U.S. housing economic data was as follows at December 31: 2007 2006 2005 U.S. Housing Starts (in millions) 1.35 1.80 2.07 Supply of Existing Homes for Sale (in months) 10 6 4.5 30 year Fixed Interest Mortgage Rates (average) 6.3 % 6.4 % 5.9 % Housing starts of 1.96 million in 2004 and 2.07 million in 2005 were above demographic demand levels. The home construction boom was caused by low interest rates, easy credit terms and rising home prices. The home construction business has slowed significantly. Housing starts for 2007 were only 1.35 million and are expected to decline further in 2008 to lows not seen since the 1991 recession. The decline is being further driven by falling home prices in most areas, increased number of homes in foreclosure, higher standards to qualify for home loans, increased supply of homes for sale and the slowing U.S. economy. It is expected that it will take a year or two before there is a rebound in home construction. The significant decline in home construction has resulted in an excess supply of lumber and other building products. This excess supply has resulted in weak lumber and plywood prices. Furthermore, the decline in home construction has caused mills to curtail production which has caused downward pressure on sawlog prices. In addition, our joint venture partners have slowed the development of our projects due to current adverse market conditions. Our timber and manufacturing operations are also negatively impacted by rising fuel prices. Operating margins in our timber business were negatively affected by $2 million, $19 million and $19 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, when compared to the prior year due to rising fuel costs and longer hauling distances. As a result of the recent rise in the price of oil, timber operating margins could be reduced further in 2008. REAL ESTATE SALES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES We estimate that included in the companys approximately 8 million acres of timberlands are about 1.7 million acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation or residential purposes. Included within the 1.7 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 500,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 200,000 acres that may be developed by our real estate development business. Our real estate development business is conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, the company has approximately 300,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. Additionally, during 2007 we sold 100,000 acres of timberlands in Wisconsin, and we may sell other large blocks of timberlands in the future to maximize value. PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 29 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 During 2007, we sold approximately 78,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, approximately 32,000 acres for conservation purposes and approximately 37,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties. We expect to sell up to 70,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational acres in 2008, whereas we estimate the number of small non strategic acres sold will decline modestly. Sales are expected to remain at these levels in future years. During 2008 our average price per acre for higher and better use / recreational properties and non strategic timberlands is likely to be lower than the price per acre we realized during 2007 primarily due to a change in the quality of the sales mix. Also, despite the significant decline in housing starts, prices for most of our higher and better use / recreational properties, which are comprised primarily of rural timberlands, have generally remained strong. However, due to the slowing U.S. economy and reduced availability of loans to finance purchases, demand for our rural timberlands could weaken. Our land development business continued to evolve during 2007. We have identified 70,000 acres (an estimated 100 properties) that we expect to develop internally over the next 15 years. At December 31, 2007, we had 21 internal development properties entitled and an additional 18 in the planning process. Revenue from sales of development properties was $50 million during 2007, which included revenue of $27 million from the sale of several parcels that were in the planning process. We are continuing to build a portfolio of internal development projects we can bring to the market. We expect to generate revenues of between $25 million and $35 million during 2008 and estimate the revenue from the development business to grow modestly in future years. Our development business is conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. Additionally, we have identified 130,000 acres that we expect to develop through joint ventures. We have entered into six joint venture arrangements covering approximately 26,000 acres. We do not expect significant revenues from these joint venture arrangements for several years. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain protective rights. We expect to enter into additional joint venture arrangements during 2008. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood (product mix) included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2007, we harvested a total of 20.4 million tons compared to a total of 21.0 million tons during 2006. We expect harvest levels during 2008 to range between 18.5 and 19.5 million tons. The expected decline in harvest levels in 2008 is due primarily to the temporary increase in harvest levels during 2006 and 2007 to take advantage of favorable pulpwood demand. Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels due to weak markets, to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. 30 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION FOR TIMBER SALES Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales and lump sum sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Sales Contracts. Pay as cut sales contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut sales contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut sales contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut sales contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree. (3) Timber Deeds. Timber deed sales are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Unlike a pay as cut sales contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. (4) Lump sum Sale Agreements. Under a lump sum sale agreement, the buyer and seller agree to a total (lump sum) price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally, the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. Title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is harvested. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise. Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Total revenue recognized under a lump sum sale contract (usually 12 to 18 months) is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Unlike timber deed sales, revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the timber is cut. We estimate the amount of revenue to recognize each month based on actual harvested volume compared to the total volume available for harvest according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer reporting how much volume has been harvested. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the timber volume harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 31 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume harvested is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to the total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 682 $ 666 Pay as cut sales $ 42 $ 57 Timber deed sales $ 17 $ 15 Lump sum sales $ 6 $ 40 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately 12% of our timber sales in 2007 and 22% of our timber sales in 2006 consisted of pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales or lump sum sales. Since under pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales and lump sum sales the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is typically higher in our Southern Resources Segment. REAL ESTATE SALES We estimate that included in the companys approximately 8 million acres of timberlands are about 1.7 million acres of higher value timberlands, which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation, or residential purposes. Included within the 1.7 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 500,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 200,000 acres that may be developed by our real estate development business. Our real estate development business is conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, the company has approximately 300,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2007, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 62%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. The operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because no book basis is allocated to this type of revenue. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have lower operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. 32 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 In connection with major timberland acquisitions, we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all the acres acquired, except when we can specifically identify properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, we estimate the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The cash flows are discounted at the risk free rates of interest. Future cash flow estimates are based on probability weighted projections for a range of possible outcomes. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. We have grown substantially through acquisitions in recent years. The purchase price of these acquisitions has been allocated to our Timber and Timberlands (including Assets Held for Sale and Real Estate Development Properties) and Property, Plant and Equipment. The allocation of the purchase price in a business combination is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 8 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into eight geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and eight geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our ten manufacturing facilities. (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our timber business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 33 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2007, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $1 million. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $2 million in 2006 and $1 million in 2005 in connection with timberlands held for sale (see Note 3 of the Notes to Financial Statements.) We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is probable that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is generally not recorded until management has concluded that it is probable (i.e., likely) that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently being actively marketed, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are being actively marketed and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management has concluded it is likely the property will be sold within twelve months based on its best estimate of fair value. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs and availability, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. The availability of logs in close proximity to our mills has been declining and is expected to decline further in the future. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our ten manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines more than expected, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. (4) Capitalized Real Estate Development Costs. Current and future costs associated with specific real estate development projects are capitalized once management has concluded it is probable that a project will be successful. Real estate development costs are expensed as incurred when management is not able to conclude that it is probable a project will be successful. Furthermore, previously capitalized costs for specific projects are written off when management revises its prior assessment and concludes that it is probable a project will not be successful. For many of our projects, there is less judgment in making this determination due to prior experience in the local market or advice from consultants. However, for some of our larger projects where we have limited experience in the local market or for projects in environmentally sensitive areas, there is significant judgment in assessing the expected outcome for the projects. At December 31, 2007, we have $11 million of capitalized costs associated with projects that management expects will be successful. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either 34 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2007 2006 Depletion Expense Northern Resources SegmentA $ 30 $ 26 Southern Resources Segment 57 56 Total depletion expense $ 87 $ 82 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources SegmentB $ 4.81 $ 3.82 Southern Resources Segment $ 4.06 $ 3.95 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation Northern Resources Segment $ 57 $ 55 Southern Resources SegmentC $ 490 $ 434 Estimated future volume (in million tons) Northern Resources Segment 323 329 Southern Resources Segment 439 435 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in depletion expense for a 10%: Increase in estimated future silviculture costsD Northern Resources Segment $ 0.1 $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.5 $ 1.3 Decrease in estimated future volumeE Northern Resources Segment $ 3.3 $ 2.9 Southern Resources Segment $ 6.4 $ 6.2 A Depletion expense for 2007 includes a $4 million loss, representing the book basis of timber volume destroyed as a result of fires on 41,000 acres in Montana. B Depletion rate increased due primarily to our 2006 and 2007 Oregon acquisitions and annual evaluation of our standing timber inventory. C Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs. D Assumes future timber volumes do not change. E Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 35 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 weather patterns, inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. DEFERRED INCOME TAXES Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level income tax if it distributes 100% of its taxable income to shareholders and satisfies other organizational and operational requirements as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If a company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. As a consequence of the October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company, which involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent that the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. Built in gains tax is generally not payable on dispositions of property to the extent the proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. The built in gains tax does not apply to income generated from the harvesting and sale of timber. In connection with our merger with The Timber Company, Plum Creek wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability related to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2007, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $1 million due to the payment of tax in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, Plum Creek remeasures the amount of deferred income taxes needed in connection with expected sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax each quarterly reporting period. In 2005, Plum Creek reduced our deferred tax liability associated with timber and timberlands by $5 million and correspondingly recorded a deferred tax benefit of $5 million. Based on projected timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax for the period January 1, 2008 to October 6, 2011, and Plum Creeks ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties, it is estimated Plum Creek needs a deferred tax liability of approximately $5 million. As a result, no adjustment to the deferred tax liability associated with the built in gains tax was made in 2007 or 2006. It is likely that actual timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax over the ten year period will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 11 of the Notes to Financial Statements. 36 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 The company accounts for share based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)). See Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Grants of both value management awards and dividend equivalents represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities under SFAS No. 123(R). As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period for both value management awards and dividend equivalents will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period to be based on the fair value of value management awards and dividend equivalents as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation costs for value management awards and dividend equivalents are based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period. Fair values for value management awards and dividend equivalents are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Groups is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole), risk free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. Additionally, the fair value of dividend equivalents assumes that our current quarterly dividend of the companys common stock of $0.42 per share will remain constant through the end of the performance period. The fair value of the liability for outstanding value management awards and dividend equivalents at December 31, 2007 was $20 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months services that were provided during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2007 could range between $11 million and $23 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), we could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards and dividend equivalents during the quarter. PENSIONS Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits vest after three years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year Treasury bond rate. Participants who were employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. It is the companys policy to fund the qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued). There was no funding of the qualified plan during 2007 because as of December 31, 2007, the fair value of plan assets of $85 million exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation of $77 million by $8 million. Assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors and, therefore, are not considered plan PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 37 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 assets. It is the companys policy to fund the non qualified pension plans annually such that the fair value of the assets held in the grantor trust equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. There was no funding to the non qualified plans grantor trust during 2007 because as of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the assets held by the grantor trust of $19 million exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation of $18 million by $1 million. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2007 2006 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount rateA 6.75 % 5.90 % Rate of compensation increaseC 3.70 % 3.70 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount rate 5.90 % 5.75 % Expected long term return on plan assetsB 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of compensation increaseC 3.70 % 3.70 % A The December 31, 2007, discount rate was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2007, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2007. B The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. C The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. 38 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 Key Financial Measures Pension expense $ 8 $ 8 Cash pension plan contributions qualified plan 5 Cash grantor trust funding supplemental plans 1 Current accrued pension liability 2 3 Non current accrued pension liability 23 31 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in pension expense for every 0.25 percentage point: decrease in long term rate of return on plan assets $ 0.2 $ 0.2 decrease in weighted average discount rate 0.7 0.7 increase in rate of increase in compensation levels 0.2 0.2 Increase in qualified pension funding for every 0.25 percentage point decrease in weighted average discount rate $ 3.7 $ 3.7 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 6.75% for 2008 and 6.20% for 2009 and beyond, and a 3.70% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project our annual pension expense for 2008 will be $7 million, $8 million for 2009 and $9 million each for 2010 and 2011. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to be approximately $5 million annually through 2010 and $6 million in 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. As of December 31, 2007, the company has entered into six joint venture agreements with land developers covering approximately 26,000 acres. We are the minority partner in each of these joint ventures, and our involvement is limited to selling and or contributing land and exercising certain protective rights. The company also has an insignificant equity investment in an unconsolidated entity. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. In August 2007, the company entered into a purchase commitment to supply natural gas to our manufacturing facilities for the period November 2007 through March 2008. The contract, which is a derivative, was designated as a normal purchase under the terms of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities. As of December 31, 2007, the companys remaining purchase obligation under this contract was $0.5 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 39 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2007 (in millions): Payment due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long term debtA $ 3,053 $ 260 $ 448 $ 1,461 $ 884 Operating lease obligations 26 5 9 5 7 Timber obligations 9 1 2 2 4 Long term incentive plans 20 9 11 Purchase obligationsB 28 17 11 Other long term liabilitiesC Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,136 $ 292 $ 481 $ 1,468 $ 895 A In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rate as of December 31, 2007 of 5.42% for our term credit agreement. Interest obligations are $113 million (Less than one year), $189 million (1 3 years), $127 million (3 5 years), and $93 million (More than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of the principal is included. Interest expense related to our line of credit was $23 million in 2007. Interest expense for the term credit agreement, which began on our borrowing date of June 15, 2007, was $11 million for 2007. B Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $16 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $2 million for contract services for freight and logging, and $3 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities. C We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2007, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $10 million, deferred compensation obligations of $8 million, non qualified pension obligations of $21 million (including $2 million classified as a current liability), and qualified pension obligations of $4 million. We expect to fund approximately $3 million for workers compensation payments in 2008. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of the qualified pension plan assets exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation. Furthermore, there are no qualified pension funding obligations at December 31, 2007. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $8 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2007, the fair value of assets in the other grantor trust was approximately $19 million and the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $18 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. See Notes 8 and 10 of the Notes to Financial Statements. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results HARVEST PLANS We determine our annual roundwood (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and 40 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to almost 1 million acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by sales of timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were approximately 6.2 million tons (58% sawlogs and 42% pulpwood) during 2007 and 6.8 million tons (60% sawlogs and 40% pulpwood) during 2006. We expect harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2008 to decrease between 6% and 7% from 2007 with an estimated mix of 62% sawlogs and 38% pulpwood. This decrease in harvest levels is due primarily to the temporary increase in harvest levels during 2006 and 2007 to take advantage of favorable log prices. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 14.1 million tons (45% sawlogs and 55% pulpwood) during 2007 and 14.1 million tons (47% sawlogs and 53% pulpwood) during 2006. In 2008, we expect harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment to decrease between 6% and 7% from 2007 with an estimated mix of 50% sawlogs and 50% pulpwood. This decrease in harvest levels is due primarily to the temporary increase in pulpwood harvests during 2006 and 2007 to take advantage of favorable pulpwood prices and increased thinnings of our timberlands to improve growth rates. U.S. CANADA SOFTWOOD LUMBER AGREEMENT Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. In 2006, the Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA) was signed by the U.S. and Canada establishing a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions that will be in effect for a period of seven years. Generally, the SLA provides that no import restrictions would be imposed on Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S. when the published composite price for lumber is higher than $355 (per thousand board feet). Below that level, a system of tiered export tax and or volume restrictions would be triggered. The impact of the taxes could be mitigated by fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. and Canadian dollars. During 2007, U.S. officials alleged Canada has not collected all taxes due and has allowed more lumber exports to the U.S. than provided for under the SLA. Under the terms of the SLA, disputes that cannot be settled are resolved by binding arbitration. A final ruling has not been issued by the arbitrator in this dispute. In 2008, the U.S. filed a second arbitration case alleging that certain Canadian provinces have provided subsidies to their lumber industries, in violation of the SLA. A request by the U.S. for arbitration is currently pending. Notwithstanding the signing of the SLA between the U.S. and Canadian governments and the results of matters being (or expected to be) arbitrated, there can be no assurance it will effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 41 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 COMPARABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PERIODS Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During 2007, we acquired 69,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon and Georgia. During 2006, we acquired 98,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon. During 2005, we acquired 754,000 acres of timberlands, located in Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida. We sold approximately 252,000 acres of timberlands in 2007, 112,000 in 2006 and 232,000 acres in 2005. As a result of these timberland acquisitions and dispositions, our ownership was approximately 8 million acres at December 31, 2007 and approximately 8.2 million acres at both December 31, 2006 and 2005. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Operating Income by Segment Northern Resources $ 58 $ 105 $ 99 Southern Resources 161 178 217 Real Estate 250 178 136 Manufactured Products 2 22 29 Other 17 16 13 Total Segment Operating Income 488 499 494 Other Costs and Eliminations (64 ) (53 ) (48 ) Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement 14 Other Operating Income (Expense), net 1 2 Operating Income $ 424 $ 461 $ 448 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $52 million, or 13%, to $361 million in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($36 million) and lower sawlog prices ($13 million). Harvest volume was 6.2 million tons during 2007 compared to 6.8 million tons in 2006. This decrease of 9% (primarily sawlogs) was due primarily to a temporary increase in harvest levels during 2006 to take advantage of favorable log prices. Sawlog prices were 5% lower compared to the prior year due primarily to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 16% of its revenues for 2007, and 25% for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices and lower harvest levels. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $5 million, or 2%, to $303 million in 2007. The decrease was due primarily to lower log and haul costs as a result of a decline in harvest levels, offset in part by a fire loss ($4 million) and an increase in log and haul rates per ton ($4 million). The fire loss represents the book basis of the timber volume destroyed by 2007 fires on approximately 41,000 acres in Montana. The increase in log and haul rates per ton was due primarily to longer hauling distances. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $13 million, or 3%, to $492 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber ($27 million) and higher pulpwood prices ($9 million), offset in part by lower sawlog prices ($24 million) and a lower margin mix from log sales ($5 million). Harvest volumes were approximately 14.1 million tons for both 2007 and 2006. 42 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Revenues increased $27 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. A portion of the increase in delivered log sales results from decreasing the percentage of standing timber sales. Under delivered log sale agreements, we are responsible for log and haul costs. Conversely, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs when standing timber is sold. We sell logs on a delivered basis when, in our judgment, log merchandising efforts will yield a net premium over selling standing timber. While revenues are higher under a delivered log sale, a large portion of that increase is to cover the related increase in cost of sales. As a result, for delivered log sales we realize lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, even though operating income is generally improved. Sawlog prices during 2007 were 9% lower than during 2006. The lower prices are due primarily to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts and a greater proportion of smaller diameter logs. Approximately one half of the sawlog price variance, or $13 million, is due to smaller diameter logs. The increase in smaller logs is due primarily to the increase in thinning of pine plantations as a proportion of our total pine harvests, and this trend is expected to continue. Pulpwood prices increased by 4% due primarily to lower sawmill residual woodchips as a result of mill curtailments and weather related harvesting restrictions. As a result of improving pulpwood prices and weak sawlog prices, we increased the percentage of pulpwood harvested and decreased the percentage of sawlogs harvested, which resulted in an overall lower margin mix from log sales. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 33% of its revenues for 2007, and 37% for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices, a lower margin mix from log sales and a higher proportion of delivered log sales. Segment costs and expenses increased by $30 million, or 10%, to $331 million in 2007. The increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales. Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre Small Non Strategic 77,530 $ 110 $ 1,400 60,095 $ 96 $ 1,585 Large Non Strategic 99,325 70 705 Conservation 31,845 42 1,340 24,385 41 1,695 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 37,065 128 3,475 22,770 93 4,070 Development Properties 5,290 50 9,440 4,325 65 15,125 Conservation Easements n/a n/a 13 885 Total 251,055 $ 400 111,575 $ 308 Proceeds from Joint Ventures $ 2 $ Revenues increased by $94 million to $402 million in 2007. Excluding revenue from a large, non strategic timberland sale, revenues increased $24 million in 2007 to $332 million. This increase is due primarily to an increase in the number of acres of higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($86 million), offset in part by lower average prices from higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($36 million), no conservation easement sales ($13 million) and lower revenues from sales of development properties ($15 million). In December 2007, we sold 99,325 large non strategic acres in Wisconsin for $70 million. The number of acres of higher and better use / recreational properties sold during 2007 increased by 63% and the number of acres of small non strategic properties sold during 2007 increased by 29% compared to 2006. These increases were due primarily to a plan to expand the number of acres we sold in both of these categories during PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 43 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 2007. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 15% during 2007 due primarily to sales mix. During 2007, we increased our sales in states with lower per acre prices while sales remained stable in states with higher per acre prices. During 2007, competition increased in the states with the highest per acre prices and demand softened. Our average sales price per acre for small non strategic properties declined approximately 12% during 2007 due primarily to selling a mix of less valuable timberlands during 2007. During 2006, we sold a greater percentage of properties from higher value regions. Our remaining inventory of small non strategic acres do not have as great of a percentage of high value properties as our sales mix during 2006. Additionally, the timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. Development properties revenue in 2007 includes $27 million from the sale of several parcels that were in the planning process to two developers in Georgia. Development properties revenue during 2006 includes the sale of a large development project for proceeds of $43 million. This large development project, which the company had been working on for several years, consisted of approximately 1,900 acres of land in King County, Washington. (See Part I, Item 1. Business, Real Estate Segment for a summary of internal development properties and joint venture arrangements.) We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2008 to range between $320 million and $340 million of which $25 million to $35 million is from development properties. We estimate we will sell up to 150,000 acres. These sales will consist of up to 70,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties, up to 4,000 acres of development properties and the remainder from small non strategic and conservation sales. In addition to the above acres, from time to time, we may sell large blocks of other timberlands to maximize value. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 62% for the period ended December 31, 2007, compared to 58% for the same period in 2006. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $22 million to $152 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to costs associated with our large, non strategic land sale in Wisconsin during 2007 ($27 million) and selling more acres during 2007, offset in part by lower costs associated with our development business. Costs associated with our development business were $18 million for 2007 compared to $44 million in 2006, with approximately half of the development business costs in 2006 associated with the large project sold in King County, Washington. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $22 million, or 5%, to $471 million in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($13 million), lower lumber sales volume ($9 million) and lower plywood prices ($9 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($10 million). Lumber prices during 2007 were 7% lower than during 2006 due primarily to weak demand and excess supply. The demand for lumber has declined due primarily to significantly lower housing starts. U.S. housing starts peaked in 2005 at 2.07 million units and since then have been on a steady decline. Housing starts for 2007 were 1.35 million compared to 1.80 million units in 2006, a decrease of 25%. The lower housing starts are due in part to an excess supply of unsold homes on the market, with a current ten month supply compared to an historical average supply of six months. The excess supply is expected to continue for at least the next twelve months due to falling home prices, record high foreclosure rates, stricter borrowing terms from lenders and a slowing U.S. economy. In response to the decline in housing starts, North American lumber production has also been declining. The supply of lumber in the United States decreased by 16% during the first nine months of 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. Despite the decline in North American lumber production, there still remains an excess supply of lumber at current demand levels. Lumber sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of a fire related log shortage in Montana and weak lumber markets. 44 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Plywood prices during 2007 were 7% lower than during 2006 due primarily to increased competition from commodity plywood manufacturers. Commodity plywood prices have experienced downward pressure due to lower oriented strand board (a substitute for commodity plywood) prices as a result of fewer housing starts. The lower commodity plywood prices have caused several plywood manufacturers to target the industrial markets we serve. MDF prices during 2007 were 8% higher than during 2006 due primarily to North American production curtailments. Despite weakening demand due to falling housing starts, the supply of North American MDF has declined faster due to weak operating margins and reduced imports. MDF operating margins have been compressed due to the significant increase in raw material costs, and MDF imports have declined as a result of the weak U.S. dollar. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was less than 1% of its revenues for 2007, and 5% of its revenues for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices and higher MDF raw materials costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $2 million to $469 million for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber sales volume and raw material costs, offset in part by higher MDF raw material costs. MDF raw material costs increased by $13 million as a result of higher wood chip (due to a regional shortage from lower lumber production) and resin costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $64 million in 2007, compared to a decrease of $53 million in 2006. This increase of $11 million was due primarily to higher share based compensation expense ($7 million) and increased costs associated with information technology ($1 million) and strategic business development ($1 million). The increase in share based compensation expense is due primarily to an increase in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2007. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, we adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement. In 2006, a definitive agreement was signed between the U.S. and Canadian governments to settle the long standing dispute over Canadian lumber imports. Under the terms of the agreement, approximately $500 million of deposits collected by the U.S. was paid to members of the U.S. industry coalition. As a member of the coalition, we received a pro rata share of these funds totaling $14 million ($13 million, net of tax). Interest Expense, net. Interest expense (net of interest income) increased $14 million, or 11%, to $147 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to increased borrowings to fund the repurchase of common stock and timberland acquisitions. During 2007, a combination of cash and debt financing was used to fund $174 million of timberland acquisitions, primarily in Oregon and Georgia, and repurchase $202 million, or approximately 5.1 million shares, of common stock. Provision for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $3 million for 2007 compared to a provision for income taxes of $13 million for 2006. This net decrease of $16 million is due primarily to a decrease in operating income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries. The lower operating income is due primarily to a large, 1,900 acre development project in King County, Washington that was sold during 2006 (resulting in a lower tax expense of $8 million) and weaker earnings from our manufacturing business (resulting in a lower tax expense of $7 million). 2006 COMPARED TO 2005 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $66 million, or 19%, to $413 million in 2006. Excluding revenues associated with our November 2005 acquisition of 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan (Michigan acquisition), revenues increased by $21 million, or 6%, to $364 million. This increase of $21 million was due primarily to higher harvest levels ($37 million), offset in part by lower softwood sawlog prices ($6 million) and a lower margin mix from log sales ($5 million). PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 45 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 Harvest levels increased by approximately 11% over the prior years harvest levels of 5.4 million tons due primarily to a temporary increase in harvest levels to take advantage of favorable log prices, especially during the first half of 2006. Softwood sawlog prices during 2006 were 2% lower than during 2005; however, softwood sawlog prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 9% lower than during the same period in the prior year. The lower prices are primarily due to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts. The lower margin mix (higher percentage of pulpwood sales and lower percentage of sawlog sales) is primarily due to the temporary increase in the harvesting of hardwood pulpwood stands to take advantage of favorable log prices. Excluding the impact of our Michigan acquisition, operating income was 25% of its revenues for 2006, and 29% for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to higher per ton log and haul rates and lower softwood sawlog prices. Segment costs and expenses increased by $60 million, or 24%, to $308 million. Excluding costs and expenses associated with our Michigan acquisition, costs and expenses increased by $27 million, or 11%, to $272 million. This increase of $27 million was due primarily to higher log and haul and depletion costs ($19 million) as a result of higher harvest levels and higher per ton log and haul rates ($8 million). Log and haul rates increased by approximately 4% due to higher fuel costs and longer hauling distances. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $22 million, or 4%, to $479 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to a lower margin mix from log sales ($14 million) and lower sawlog prices ($11 million). During 2005, we substantially completed the conversion of numerous natural stands to plantations in order to improve growth rates. As a result of this conversion, our product mix has changed whereby the percentage of large diameter sawlogs harvested during 2006 has decreased and the percentage of small diameter sawlogs and pulpwood harvested has increased. Sawlog prices during 2006 were 3% lower than during 2005; however, sawlog prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 10% lower than during the same period in the prior year. The lower prices are primarily due to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 37% of its revenues for 2006, and 43% for 2005. This decrease was due primarily to a lower percentage of high value sawlogs in the sales mix, lower sawlog prices, and higher per ton log and haul rates. Segment costs and expenses increased by $17 million, or 6%, to $301 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to higher log and haul cost per ton ($11 million). Log and haul rates increased by approximately 7% due to higher fuel costs and longer hauling distances. Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre Small Non Strategic 60,095 $ 96 $ 1,585 148,200 $ 160 $ 1,075 Large Non Strategic 40,000 31 780 Conservation 24,385 41 1,695 22,600 26 1,151 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 22,770 93 4,070 21,000 59 2,814 Development Properties 4,325 65 15,125 200 3 14,500 Conservation Easements n/a 13 885 n/a 13 450 Total 111,575 $ 308 232,000 $ 292 46 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Revenues increased by $16 million to $308 million in 2006. This increase is due primarily to the sale of development properties ($62 million), the timing and location of sales of higher and better use properties ($34 million) and conservation properties ($15 million), offset in part by a decrease in the sales of small non strategic properties ($64 million) and no large, non strategic timberland sales during 2006 ($31 million). The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Development properties revenue increased in 2006 due primarily to the sale of a large development project for proceeds of $43 million and the continued expansion of our real estate development business. This large development, which the company has been working on for several years, consisted of approximately 1,900 acres of land in King County, Washington. Average price per acre for small non strategic land sales was $1,585 during 2006 compared to $1,075 per acre during 2005. Compared to prices realized during 2006, the majority of our remaining small non strategic acres will likely have a lower price per acre. Average price per acre for higher and better use / recreational land sales was $4,070 during 2006 compared to $2,814 per acre during 2005. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 58% for the period ended December 31, 2006, compared to 47% for the same period in 2005. This increase was due primarily to selling a greater percentage of lower value timberlands during 2005, including 40,000 acres of large, non strategic timberlands that were sold for a nominal gain. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses decreased by $26 million to $130 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to selling fewer acres during 2006 ($58 million), offset in part by higher costs associated with our development business ($34 million). Costs associated with our development business were $44 million for 2006 compared to $10 million in 2005, with approximately half of the development business costs in 2006 associated with the large project sold in King County, Washington. The remainder of the increase in development costs was due to higher staffing levels, basis and selling costs for lot sales, and investigatory and feasibility costs in connection with the expansion of this business. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $11 million, or 2%, to $493 million in 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($4 million), lower lumber sales volume ($16 million), and lower plywood sales volume ($10 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($13 million) and higher MDF sales volume ($3 million). Lumber sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of a declining log supply and weak lumber prices. Lumber prices for 2006 were 5% lower than during 2005; however, lumber prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 11% lower than during the same period in the prior year due to the sharp decline in housing starts. Housing starts in the U.S. during 2006 were 12% lower compared to 2005. Plywood sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to a declining supply of high grade plywood logs in the region and increased competition from commodity plywood mills. Plywood prices for 2006 were slightly higher than 2005; however, plywood prices during the fourth quarter of 2006 were 8% lower than during the fourth quarter of 2005. This price decline was due primarily to increased competition from commodity plywood producers which targeted sales to industrial customers as a result of the slow down in home construction. MDF prices increased an average of 9% for all of 2006 due primarily to a mix shift to higher value products and supply constraints due to recent North America mill closures. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was 5% of its revenues for 2006 and 6% for 2005. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $4 million, or 1%, to $471 million in 2006. This decrease of $4 million was due primarily to lower lumber sales volume ($12 million) and lower plywood sales volume ($9 million), offset in part by higher plywood manufacturing costs ($8 million) and higher MDF raw material costs ($9 million). Plywood manufacturing costs increased due primarily to the increased costs associated with manufacturing higher value products. MDF raw material costs increased due primarily to higher resin (due to higher energy costs) and wood fiber (due to regional fiber shortage) costs. PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 47 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $53 million in 2006, compared to a decrease of $48 million in 2005. This increase of $5 million was due primarily to increased costs associated with information technology, strategic business development, and financial and tax reporting. Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement. In 2006, a definitive agreement was signed between the U.S. and Canadian governments to settle the long standing dispute over Canadian lumber imports. Under the terms of the agreement, approximately $500 million of deposits collected by the U.S. was paid to members of the U.S. industry coalition. As a member of the coalition, we received a pro rata share of these funds totaling $14 million ($13 million, net of tax). Interest Expense, net. Interest expense (net of interest income) increased $24 million, or 22%, to $133 million in 2006. This increase was due primarily to the issuance of $300 million of senior notes in connection with our November 2005 Michigan timberland acquisition and our repurchase of approximately 7.5 million shares of common stock for $263 million in 2006. The share repurchase was funded by using a combination of cash and debt financing. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $13 million for 2006 compared to $8 million for 2005. This change of $5 million is due primarily to a remeasurement of our Deferred Tax Liability in 2005, which reduced tax expense for 2005 by $5 million. This remeasurement was related to projected sales of timberlands that are subject to built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011, that were acquired in connection with our merger with The Timber Company. 48 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Financial Condition and Liquidity The following table details our sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Sources of Cash: OperationsA $ 528 $ 533 $ 552 Changes in Working Capital 8 29 (36 ) Cash from Stock Option Exercises 8 7 9 Cash from Other Asset Sales 3 2 29 Increase Debt Obligations, net 200 93 341 Other Cash Changes, netB 2 (4 ) (3 ) Total Sources of Cash 749 660 892 Uses of Cash: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends (294 ) (290 ) (279 ) Common Stock Repurchases (202 ) (263 ) (1 ) Reinvest in the Business: Capital ExpendituresC (112 ) (92 ) (89 ) Acquire Timberlands (174 ) (111 ) (501 ) Total Uses of Cash (782 ) (756 ) (870 ) Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (33 ) $ (96 ) $ 22 A Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, Basis of Real Estate Sold, Gain on Sales of Properties and Other Assets, Deferred Income Taxes and Other Operating Activities to Net Income. B Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Other Investing Activities and Other Financing Activities. C Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows by adding Capital Expenditures (excluding Timberland Acquisitions) and Expenditures for Real Estate Development. The following table summarizes total cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 517 $ 556 $ 516 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (262 ) (199 ) (563 ) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (288 ) (453 ) 69 Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (33 ) $ (96 ) $ 22 Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $517 million, compared to $556 million in 2006. This decrease of $39 million is due primarily to weaker PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 49 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 operating income from our timber business ($64 million) and manufacturing business ($20 million), and lower proceeds from like kind exchange trusts ($30 million), offset in part by proceeds from the sale of approximately 100,000 acres of timberlands in Wisconsin ($70 million). Proceeds associated with a forward like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days, or if the exchange is not successful, are distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. During 2006, we received proceeds from an unsuccessful like kind exchange while during 2007, all like kind exchange funds were utilized for timberland acquisitions. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $556 million, compared to $516 million in 2005. The increase of $40 million was due primarily to a $65 million decrease in working capital, primarily as a result of a $51 million positive change related to the timing of when proceeds from a like kind exchange trust are either reinvested in replacement property (primarily timberlands) or distributed to the company. During 2006, we received proceeds from an unsuccessful like kind exchange while during 2005 we had numerous real estate sales in which the proceeds were held in a like kind exchange trust as of December 31, 2005. Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures were as follows for the years ending December 31 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Capital Expenditures (Excluding Timberland Acquisitions) $ 93 $ 86 $ 89 Expenditures for Real Estate Development 19 6 Total Capital Expenditures $ 112 $ 92 $ 89 Timberlands acquired were as follows for the years ending December 31 (dollars in millions): Year Amount Acres Primary Locations Funding Source 2007 $ 174 69,000 Oregon and Georgia Line of Credit and Tax Deferred Exchanges 2006 $ 111 98,000 Oregon Line of Credit and Tax Deferred Exchanges 2005 $ 501 754,000 Northern Michigan, Arkansas and Florida Tax Deferred Exchanges, Debt and Funds From Operations Planned capital expenditures for 2008, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $90 million and $100 million and include approximately $64 million for our timberlands, $15 million for real estate development investments, $11 million for our manufacturing facilities, and $10 million for investments in information technology, primarily for resource initiatives and data protection. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 50% of planned capital expenditures in 2008 are discretionary, primarily expenditures for silviculture and land development. Other capital expenditures consist primarily of reforestation and projects at our manufacturing facilities to sustain operating activities and improve safety. Included within the planned capital expenditures for our manufacturing facilities for 2008 is approximately a $4 million investment to expand our bio filter emissions control equipment at our MDF facilities to comply with stricter environmental standards that become effective October 1, 2008. Debt Financing. The company has filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., from time to time, may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and under which Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership, may from time to time, offer and sell debt securities. The shelf registration statement expires on April 25, 2009. 50 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 The company has a $750 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures in June 2011. The revolving line of credit may be increased to $1 billion subject to certain terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 5.48%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $750 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2007, we had $556 million of borrowings and $13 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $181 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 2, 2008, $182 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. On June 15, 2007, the company entered into a $350 million term credit agreement that matures in June 2012. As of December 31, 2007, the interest rate for the term credit agreement was 5.42%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. The term credit agreement is subject to covenants similar to those of our revolving line of credit and allows prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. The net proceeds of $350 million were used to reduce our borrowings on our line of credit. During 2006, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. issued off the shelf registration statement $225 million aggregate principal amount of its senior notes with a coupon rate of 5.875%, at a market price of 96.686% of the principal amount. The notes mature in 2015 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. The net proceeds of $216 million were used primarily to repay outstanding debt that matured during 2006. In November of 2005, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. issued $300 million aggregate principal notes with a coupon rate of 5.875% at a market price of 99.731% of the principal amount. The notes, issued under a previous shelf registration statement, mature in 2015 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. The net proceeds of $297 million were used primarily to acquire 650,000 acres of timberlands in Michigan, valued at $345 million. The transaction was also funded by $87 million of like kind exchange funds. The companys borrowing agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or stock repurchases). The borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets. Furthermore, our line of credit requires that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. The company was in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2007. The companys financial policy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Equity. On February 5, 2008, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $72 million, which will be paid on February 29, 2008, to stockholders of record on February 14, 2008. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 51 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. Plum Creeks Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program that may be increased from time to time at the Board of Directors discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the company repurchased 5.1 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $202 million, or an average cost per share of $39.40. As of December 31, 2007, the company is authorized to repurchase an additional $200 million of its common stock. During the period January 1, 2008 to February 27, 2008, the company repurchased $49 million of its common stock at an average price per share of $40.11, leaving approximately $151 million in remaining authorization to buy its common stock as of February 27, 2008. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. We believe, however, that cash on hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures and interest payments on our indebtedness through the end of 2008. In 2008, the company has $147 million of scheduled long term debt principal payment requirements. The company intends to refinance the 2008 principal payments at the time of maturity with the use of a combination of short term and long term borrowings, depending on interest rate and market conditions. Management believes that the companys credit ratings, asset base and historical financial performance will allow these refinancings to be completed at attractive interest rates. Other Information SFAS No. 141(R). In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)), which is a revision of SFAS No. 141. In general, SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and transactions that are accounted for as business combinations. In addition, SFAS No. 141(R) generally requires all assets and liabilities of acquired entities to be recorded at fair value, and changes the recognition and measurement of related aspects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date within fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The standard is required to be adopted prospectively and early adoption is not allowed. The Company is in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have on the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No. 160). In general, SFAS No. 160 requires that a noncontrolling interest in a consolidated subsidiary be presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as a separate component of equity and also establishes a framework for recognition of changes in control for a consolidated subsidiary that is not 100% owned. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard is required to be adopted prospectively and early adoption is not allowed. The Company does not own any noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries and therefore does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 to have any impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 157. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 supersedes the definition of fair value in most existing pronouncements under generally accepted accounting principles that require or permit the use of fair value, including (but not limited to) business combinations, impairments and exchanges of nonmonetary assets. SFAS No. 157 established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level I measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level III measurements). SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 which delays the effective date of SFAS 52 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 No. 157 for certain non financial assets and liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The company partially adopted SFAS No. 157 in the first quarter of 2008, which did not result in recognition of a transition adjustment to retained earnings. The company will be required to provide expanded disclosures about fair value measurement, but does not expect the partial adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have any impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The company will fully adopt SFAS No. 157, including all non financial assets and liabilities, in the first quarter of 2009. The company is in the process of determining the effect, if any, the full adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 159. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of SFAS Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 allows entities to measure certain financial assets and liabilities and similar non financial assets and liabilities at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis, that are otherwise not accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. Generally, the adoption of this standard is optional. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007; early adoption is permitted for an entitys first fiscal year that begins on or before November 15, 2007, provided that entity also adopts the provisions of SFAS No. 157 with the early adoption. The company elected not to early adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 159. The company does not anticipate it will adopt SFAS No. 159 in the first quarter of 2008 for its existing eligible assets and liabilities. PLUM CREEK 2007 10k 53 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Approximately $1.6 billion of the long term debt of the company bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 There after Total FairValueA December 31, 2007 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 424 $ 4 $ 791 $ 1,625 $ 1,697 Average interest rateC 6.9 % 6.8 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.2 % 6.0 % Variable rate debtD $ 556 $ 350 $ 906 $ 906 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 There after Total FairValue December 31, 2006 Fixed rate debt Principal dueB $ 123 $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 424 $ 796 $ 1,749 $ 1,795 Average interest rateC 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.8 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.0 % Variable rate debt $ 581 $ 581 $ 581 A The decrease in the fair value of fixed rate debt from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 was due primarily to the repayment of $123 million of fixed rate borrowings during 2007. B Excludes unamortized discount of $8 million and $7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. C Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt outstanding at the end of the period. D As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average interest rate on the $556 million of borrowings under our $750 million revolving line of credit was 5.48%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. As of January 2, 2008, $182 million of the borrowings under our line of credit was repaid. As of December 31, 2007, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 5.42%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. 54 PLUM CREEK 2007 10k Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 8 
 
