ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statement This Report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Some of the forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, intends, plans, estimates, projects, strategy, or anticipates, or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements, including those factors described in Risk Factors under Item 1A in this Form 10 K. Some factors include changes in governmental, legislative and environmental restrictions, catastrophic losses from fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, insect infestations or diseases, as well as changes in economic conditions and competition in our domestic and export markets and other factors described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contemplated by our projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted results as reflected in forward looking statements relating to our operations and business include, but are not limited to: the failure to meet our expectations with respect to our likely future performance; an unanticipated reduction in the demand for timber products and or an unanticipated increase in supply of timber products; an unanticipated reduction in demand for higher and better use timberlands or non strategic timberlands; our failure to make strategic acquisitions or to integrate any such acquisitions effectively or, conversely, our failure to make strategic divestitures; and our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. It is likely that if one or more of the risks materializes, or if one or more assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current expectations of Plum Creek and its management will not be realized. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Plum Creek nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements. Overview 2008 OPERATING PERFORMANCE COMPARED TO 2007 Operating income decreased by $96 million to $328 million in 2008. Our results reflect the weakness in U.S. residential construction markets, which has continued to weaken over the past several years. Sawlog demand from lumber and plywood mills continued to decline in 2008 resulting in lower operating income for both of our Resources Segments during 2008. Operating income in our Northern Resources Segment decreased by $17 million to $41 million in 2008 due primarily to lower sawlog prices and higher per ton log and haul rates. Operating income in our Southern Resources Segment decreased by $33 million to $128 million due primarily to a combination of lower sawlog prices, a weaker sales mix and higher per ton log and haul rates. Operating losses from our Manufactured Products Segment were $44 million in 2008 compared to essentially break even operating results in 2007. In addition to lower lumber and plywood prices, operating income was also negatively impacted by inventory and purchase commitment write downs, lumber manufacturing asset impairment charges and higher MDF raw material costs. Operating income from our Real Estate Segment decreased by $5 million to $245 million. Despite lower average prices from higher and better use/recreational and small non strategic land sales and lower sales from development 28 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 properties, operating income was similar to 2007 due primarily to a large multi period conservation sales contract in Montana, which contributed $74 million to operating income in 2008. On October 1, 2008, to capture strong timberland values, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in exchange for a $705 million preferred interest and a 9% common interest valued at $78 million. The Timberland Ventures other member contributed $783 million of cash in exchange for a common interest. Following the contribution, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture. As a result of the Timberland Venture, we reported equity earnings of $15 million, primarily related to our preferred interest, and $14 million of interest expense associated with the $783 million indebtedness. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Our 2008 earnings were positively impacted by lower interest expense on our debt obligations (excluding interest expense from the Note Payable to Timberland Venture), which decreased by $13 million, or 9%, to $134 million. This decrease was due primarily to lower interest rates on our variable rate debt. Also, during 2008, we recorded a tax benefit of $27 million compared to a tax benefit of $3 million in the prior year. The higher tax benefit is due primarily to the operating loss in our manufacturing business. The majority of the benefit will result in a tax refund in 2009. LIQUIDITY The company believes it has a strong balance sheet and does not foresee any liquidity issues. At December 31, 2008, we had a cash balance of $369 million and had availability of $506 million under our line of credit. During 2008, we generated cash of $420 million from operating activities. Despite the current recession in the U.S., we expect improved cash from operating activity in 2009. We believe based on our strong balance sheet and liquidity, and the cash we expect to generate from operating activity, that we will meet all of our long term interest and principal payments, required capital expenditures and quarterly dividend distributions in 2009. KEY ECONOMIC FACTORS IMPACTING OUR RESOURCES AND MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS BUSINESS Our operating performance for the Resources and Manufactured Products Segments is impacted primarily by the supply and demand for logs and wood products in the United States. The short term supply of logs is impacted primarily by weather and the level of harvesting activities. The demand for logs in the United States is impacted by housing starts, repair and remodeling activities and the amount of imported lumber, primarily from Canada. Selected U.S. housing economic data was as follows at December 31: 2008 2007 2006 U.S. Housing Starts (in millions) 0.90 1.35 1.80 Supply of Existing Homes for Sale (in months) 11 10 6 30 year Fixed Interest Mortgage Rates (average) 6.0 % 6.3 % 6.4 % Housing starts have been steadily declining since they peaked at 2.07 million units in 2005. The decline has primarily been driven by falling home prices, increased number of homes in foreclosure, higher standards to qualify for home loans and increased supply of homes for sale. The significant decline in home construction and repair and remodel activities has resulted in an excess supply of lumber and other building products. This excess supply has resulted in weak lumber and plywood prices. Furthermore, the decline in home construction has caused mills to curtail production which has caused downward pressure on sawlog prices. The U.S. economy slowed significantly during the fourth quarter of 2008 and is currently in a recession. The recession has caused a significant increase in the unemployment rate and very low consumer confidence. As a result, housing PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 29 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 starts for 2009 are expected to decline even further. The lower housing starts may result in more mill curtailments and closures, which could cause sawlog prices to weaken further. Additionally, during the fourth quarter, pulpwood demand began to weaken. The weaker pulpwood demand was due primarily to the decline in consumer spending (primarily packaging materials) and may weaken pulpwood prices if the recession continues. Over the past several years, fuel prices have generally been rising. Our timber and manufacturing operations have been negatively impacted by rising fuel prices. Operating income in our timber business was negatively affected by $23 million, $2 million and $19 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, when compared to the prior year due to rising fuel costs and longer hauling distances. However, fuel prices declined significantly during the second half of 2008 to price levels comparable with the fourth quarter of 2007. We expect fuel prices in 2009 to be lower than fuel prices in 2008. REAL ESTATE SALES AND DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES We estimate that included in the companys approximately 7.4 million acres of timberlands at December 31, 2008, are about 1.5 million acres of higher value timberlands which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation or residential purposes. Included within the 1.5 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 350,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 200,000 acres that may be developed by our real estate development business. In addition, the company has approximately 250,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. Some of our real estate activities, including our real estate development business, are conducted through our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. During 2008, we sold approximately 92,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, approximately 175,000 acres for conservation purposes and approximately 46,000 acres of higher and better use / recreational properties. We anticipate selling up to 250,000 acres in 2009 and may adjust the type and geographic location of properties sold to respond to areas with active markets. During 2009 our average price per acre for higher and better use / recreational properties is likely to be lower than the price per acre we realized during 2008 primarily due to an increased focus in markets with lower value recreational properties. As a result of the recession, demand in regions with higher value recreation properties has significantly weakened. As a consequence of the weak demand for higher value recreational properties, we have removed some of our best higher and better use / recreational properties from the market. If the U.S. economy remains in a recession for an extended period of time, demand for our rural timberlands could be impacted. During 2008, we sold approximately 175,000 acres of conservation properties for $200 million compared to selling approximately 32,000 acres for $42 million in 2007. The increase was due primarily to selling approximately 130,000 acres in Montana to a conservation buyer for $150 million. Also, in February 2009, we received $250 million from the same buyer from the sale of approximately 110,000 acres. We expect the final phase of this three phase deal to close in 2010 for $89 million covering 70,000 acres. Our land development business slowed dramatically in 2008 as the economy weakened causing a significant decrease in the demand for these properties. Revenue from sales of development properties was $7 million during 2008. We expect sales in 2009 to approximate the 2008 level and do not expect significant sales of development properties to occur until there is an improvement in consumer confidence and the U.S. economy. HARVEST LEVELS The volume of trees we harvest each year and the percentage of sawlogs and pulpwood (product mix) included in our annual harvest also impact our operating performance. During 2008, we harvested a total of 19.6 million tons compared to a total of 20.4 million tons during 2007. We expect harvest levels during 2009 to range between 16 and 30 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 17 million tons. The expected decline in harvest levels in 2009 is due primarily to contributing 454,000 acres to the Timberland Venture and increasing pulpwood harvests in prior years to take advantage of favorable prices. Future harvest levels may vary from historic levels due to weaker than expected markets, to take advantage of favorable prices or due to factors outside of our control, such as weather and fires. Future harvest levels may also be impacted by our sale of timberlands and the extent to which proceeds are reinvested in core timberlands. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Under different assumptions or conditions, actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements: REVENUE RECOGNITION FOR TIMBER SALES Timber sales revenues are recognized when legal ownership and the risk of loss transfer to the purchaser and the quantity sold is determinable. We sell timber under delivered log agreements and through sales of standing timber (or stumpage) using pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales and lump sum sale agreements. (1) Delivered Log Sales. Under a delivered log sale agreement, we harvest the timber and deliver it to the buyer. Revenue is recognized when the log is delivered as risk of loss and title transfer to the buyer. With delivered log sales, we incur the cost of logging and hauling. (2) Pay as Cut Sales Contracts. Pay as cut sales contracts are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land for an agreed upon price for each type of tree over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). In some cases, an advance is received in connection with pay as cut sales contracts. In other cases, the buyer agrees to harvest only certain trees on a tract of land. Under pay as cut sales contracts, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue is recognized when the timber is harvested, as title and risk of loss has transferred to the buyer. Total revenue recognized under a pay as cut sales contract is the total volume of wood removed multiplied by the unit price for each type of tree. (3) Timber Deeds. Timber deed sales are agreements in which the buyer agrees to purchase and harvest specified timber on a tract of land over the term of the contract (usually 12 to 18 months). Unlike a pay as cut sales contract, risk of loss and title to the trees transfer to the buyer when the contract is signed. The buyer also pays the full purchase price when the contract is signed. Under a timber deed, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Revenue from a timber deed sale is recognized when the contract is signed. Timber deeds are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise which is an estimate of the total volume of timber on a tract of land broken down by the various types of trees (such as softwood sawlogs, hardwood pulpwood, etc.). Total revenue recognized under a timber deed is the amount of the highest bid and is not dependent upon the volume or types of trees actually harvested. (4) Lump sum Sale Agreements. Under a lump sum sale agreement, the buyer and seller agree to a total (lump sum) price for all the timber available for harvest on a tract of land. Generally, the lump sum price is paid when the contract is signed. Title to the timber and risk of loss transfers to the buyer as the timber is harvested. Lump sum sales are generally marketed and sold to the highest bidder. Bids are typically based on a timber cruise. Under a lump sum sale, the buyer is responsible for all logging and hauling costs. Total revenue recognized under a PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 31 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 lump sum sale contract (usually 12 to 18 months) is the amount of the highest bid, and is not dependent upon the volume or type of trees actually harvested. Unlike timber deed sales, revenue is recognized under a lump sum sale agreement as the timber is cut. We estimate the amount of revenue to recognize each month based on actual harvested volume compared to the total volume available for harvest according to the timber cruise. We generally receive weekly information from the buyer reporting how much volume has been harvested. Additionally, we gather information by observing the tract to estimate the timber volume harvested. In most cases, the total volume harvested from a tract of land is different than the volume estimated in the timber cruise. If the total volume harvested is greater than the cruise estimated volume, we will stop recognizing revenue once the total revenue recognized is equal to the total lump sum contract price. No revenue will be recognized for volumes harvested in excess of the cruise estimated volume. If the total volume removed is less than the cruise estimated volume, an adjustment will be recorded in the month in which we learn of the difference. The adjustment is an increase in revenue equal to the difference between the total revenue recognized to date and the total lump sum contract price. The following table summarizes amounts recognized under each method from sales to external customers in the companys consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 Revenues from: Delivered log sales $ 654 $ 682 Pay as cut sales $ 37 $ 42 Timber deed sales $ 20 $ 17 Lump sum sales $ $ 6 Substantially all of our timber sales in the Northern Resources Segment are under delivered log sale agreements. In our Southern Resources Segment, approximately 12% of our timber sales in 2008 and in 2007 consisted of pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales or lump sum sales. Since under pay as cut sales contracts, timber deed sales and lump sum sales the buyer is responsible for the logging and hauling costs, the operating profit as a percentage of revenue is typically higher in our Southern Resources Segment. REAL ESTATE SALES As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that included in the companys approximately 7.4 million acres of timberlands are about 1.5 million acres of higher value timberlands, which are expected to be sold and or developed over the next 15 years for recreational, conservation, or residential purposes. Included within the 1.5 million acres of higher value timberlands are approximately 1 million acres we expect to sell for recreational uses, approximately 350,000 acres we expect to sell for conservation and approximately 200,000 acres that may be developed by our real estate development business. In addition, the company has approximately 250,000 acres of non strategic timberlands, which are expected to be sold over the next five years. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. As a result, the timing of our real estate sales may materially impact our reported operating income and net income. During 2008, the Real Estate Segment reported an operating profit percentage of approximately 57%. We estimate our Real Estate Segments annual operating profit percentage could range from 35% to 70% of revenues. The 32 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 operating profit percentage depends on the nature of the interest sold and how much the market value of the property has risen over its book value. For example, the sale of conservation easements will generally have an operating profit percentage of close to 100% because historically no book basis was allocated to these types of sales. Sales of recently acquired properties will generally have relatively lower operating profit percentages while sales of properties held for a long time will tend to have relatively higher operating profit percentages. Sales of timberlands owned by Plum Creek prior to The Timber Company merger, which, for accounting purposes, were deemed acquired as of the merger date, will thus have lower operating profit percentages since these properties were recorded at appraised value as of October 2001. In connection with major timberland acquisitions, we are generally not able to identify our future real estate sales. However, while our purchase price allocation and related appraisals reflected greater values for real estate which may be sold in the future for uses which have a higher value than timber production, we are generally not able to identify specific properties. Therefore, in connection with our purchase price allocation for timberland acquisitions, the greater values for real estate are allocated proportionately among all the acres acquired, except when we can specifically identify properties. In general, however, timberlands are acquired primarily for long term use in our timber operations and specific properties cannot be identified in advance because their value is dependent upon numerous factors, most of which are not known at the acquisition date, including current and future zoning restrictions, current and future environmental restrictions, future changes in demographics, future changes in the economy, current and future plans of adjacent landowners, and current and future funding of government and not for profit conservation and recreation programs. We believe that current and future results of operations could be materially different under different purchase price allocation assumptions, and generally, when we acquire properties, we do not have the ability, with any level of precision, to estimate which of the acquired properties will someday sell for more than their underlying timber production value. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG LIVED ASSETS We evaluate our ability to recover the net investment in long lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets used in a business when the carrying value (net book value) of the assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to those assets over their expected useful life. Impairment losses are measured by the extent to which the carrying value of a group of assets exceeds the fair value of such assets at a given point in time. When the fair values of the assets are not available, we estimate the fair values by using the discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the assets. The expected future cash flows are discounted at a risk adjusted rate of interest. Furthermore, SFAS No. 144 requires recognition of an impairment loss in connection with long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of the assets exceeds an amount equal to their fair value less selling costs. Since 2000, we have grown substantially through acquisitions. The purchase price of these acquisitions has been allocated to our Timber and Timberlands (including Assets Held for Sale and Real Estate Development Properties) and Property, Plant and Equipment. The allocation of the purchase price is highly subjective. Management is required to estimate the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Subsequent to the original allocation, these assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable through future operations. SFAS No. 144 requires that long lived assets be grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level for which there are independent cash flows. We track cash flows for our 7.4 million acres of timberlands by grouping them into seven geographic areas in the Northern Resources Segment and six geographic areas in the Southern Resources Segment. Additionally, we track cash flows for each of our ten manufacturing facilities. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 33 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 (1) Timber and Timberlands Used in Our Business. SFAS No. 144 provides that for assets used in a business, an impairment loss is recorded only when the carrying value of those assets is not recoverable through future operations. The recoverability test is based on undiscounted future cash flows over the expected life of the assets. We use one harvest cycle (which ranges between 20 and 90 years) for evaluating the recoverability of our timber and timberlands. Because of the inherently long life of timber and timberlands, we do not expect to incur an impairment loss in the future for the timber and timberlands used in our timber business. (2) Timber and Timberlands Held for Sale. SFAS No. 144 provides that an impairment loss is recognized for long lived assets held for sale when the carrying value of those assets exceeds an amount equal to its fair value less selling costs. An asset is generally considered to be held for sale when we have committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition, we have initiated an active program to locate a buyer, and the sale is expected to close within one year. During 2008, the above criteria were met by a number of our timberland properties, and we recognized impairment losses of $1 million for certain of these properties. Similarly, we recognized impairment losses of $1 million in 2007 and $2 million in 2006 in connection with timberlands held for sale (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We expect to continue to sell or exchange non strategic timberlands to other forest products companies or non industrial investors, and it is probable that we will recognize, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, additional impairment losses in the future in connection with sales of non strategic timberlands. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is generally not recorded until management has concluded that it is probable (i.e., likely) that timberlands will be sold within the next 12 months. For many properties that are currently listed for sale, it is difficult to conclude whether they will be sold within one year and to estimate the price. Nevertheless, management performs a probability assessment for all properties that are listed for sale and records an impairment loss (to the extent the propertys book basis exceeds its estimated fair value net of selling cost) in the quarter in which management has concluded it is likely the property will be sold within twelve months based on its best estimate of fair value. (3) Property, Plant and Equipment. The carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment represents primarily the net book value of our ten (of which one mill will be permanently closed in 2009) manufacturing facilities. Each manufacturing facility is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable through future operations. The estimated future cash flows over the remaining useful life of a manufacturing facility is highly subjective and is dependent upon estimates for future product pricing, raw material costs and availability, volumes of product sold, and residual value of the facility. During the second quarter of 2008, we recognized an impairment loss of $10 million in connection with our lumber manufacturing assets as a result of the significant decline in housing starts and the expectation for continued weak lumber prices. The availability of logs in close proximity to our mills has been declining and is expected to decline further in the future. We currently estimate that the carrying value for our ten manufacturing facilities is recoverable through future operations and that our estimate of future cash flows is reasonable. However, if wood product prices were to remain weak at current levels for an extended period of time, or if log or raw material availability declines more than expected, the company may be required to record an impairment loss for one or more of its manufacturing facilities in a future period. (4) Capitalized Real Estate Development Costs. Current and future costs associated with specific real estate development projects are capitalized once management has concluded it is probable that a project will be successful. Real estate development costs are expensed as incurred when management is not able to conclude that it is probable a project will be successful. Furthermore, previously capitalized costs for specific projects are written off when management revises its prior assessment and concludes that it is probable a project will not be successful and costs will not be recovered. For many of our projects, there is less judgment in making this determination due to prior 34 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 experience in the local market or advice from consultants. However, for some of our larger projects where we have limited experience in the local market or for projects in environmentally sensitive areas, there is significant judgment in assessing the expected outcome for the projects. At December 31, 2008, we have $28 million of capitalized costs associated with projects that management expects will be successful. Of these capitalized costs, approximately $14 million could be written off within the next 12 months if final regulatory approval is not received. DEPLETION Depletion, or costs attributed to timber harvested, is recorded as trees are harvested. Depletion rates for each region are adjusted at least annually. Depletion rates are computed by dividing (A) the sum of (1) the original cost of the timber less previously recorded depletion plus (2) estimated future silviculture costs, including the impact of inflation, that are expected to be incurred over the next harvest cycle, by (B) the total timber volume that is estimated to be harvested over the harvest cycle. The harvest cycle can be as short as 20 years in the South to as long as 90 years in the North. The estimate of future silviculture costs is limited to the expenditures that are expected to impact growth rates over the harvest cycle. The depletion rate calculations do not include an estimate for either future reforestation costs associated with a stands final harvest or future volume in connection with the replanting of a stand subsequent to its final harvest. The following table summarizes depletion expense recognized in the companys financial statements, key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions, except per ton amounts): 2008 2007 Depletion Expense Northern Resources SegmentA $ 27 $ 30 Southern Resources Segment 56 57 Total Depletion Expense $ 83 $ 87 Average Depletion Rates (per ton) Northern Resources Segment $ 4.56 $ 4.81 Southern Resources Segment $ 4.10 $ 4.06 Assumptions Used to Determine the Average Depletion Rates Estimated Future Silviculture Costs, including the Impact of Inflation Northern Resources SegmentB $ 72 $ 57 Southern Resources SegmentB $ 535 $ 490 Estimated Future Volume (in million tons) Northern Resources SegmentC 313 323 Southern Resources Segment 441 439 Sensitivity of Results to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Depletion Expense for a 10%: Increase in Estimated Future Silviculture CostsD Northern Resources Segment $ 0.2 $ 0.1 Southern Resources Segment $ 1.6 $ 1.5 Decrease in Estimated Future VolumeE Northern Resources Segment $ 3.0 $ 3.3 Southern Resources Segment $ 6.2 $ 6.4 PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 35 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 A Depletion expense for 2007 includes a $4 million loss, representing the book basis of timber volume destroyed as a result of fires on 41,000 acres in Montana. B Reflects an increase in our estimates of future costs associated with fertilization treatments due to higher chemical and application costs. C Decrease from 2007 is due primarily to divestitures in the Segment. D Assumes future timber volumes do not change. E Assumes future silviculture costs do not change. Significant estimates and judgments are required to determine both future silviculture costs and the volume of timber available for harvest over the harvest cycle. Some of the factors impacting the estimates are changes in inflation rates, the cost of fertilizers and chemicals, the cost of capital, the actual and estimated increase in growth rates from fertilizer applications, the relative price of sawlogs and pulpwood, the actual and expected real price appreciation of timber, the scientific advancement in seedling and growing technology, and changes in harvest cycles. We have invested in technology that enables us to predict our current standing inventory of trees, future growth rates, and the benefits of scientific advancements in connection with seedlings, planting techniques and fertilizer applications. Therefore, while estimates with respect to depletion computations will be revised at least annually, we do not expect the depletion rates will change materially from year to year. DEFERRED INCOME TAXES Plum Creek has elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. A REIT is generally not subject to corporate level income tax if it distributes 100% of its taxable income to shareholders and satisfies other organizational and operational requirements as set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. If a company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. As a consequence of the October 6, 2001 merger with The Timber Company, which involved merging a taxable entity into a nontaxable entity, Plum Creek will generally be subject to corporate level tax (built in gains tax) if the company makes a taxable disposition of certain property acquired in the merger within the ten year period following the merger date. The built in gains tax applies to gains from such asset sales to the extent that the fair value of the property exceeds its tax basis at the merger date. Built in gains tax is generally not payable on dispositions of property to the extent the proceeds from such dispositions are reinvested in qualifying like kind replacement property. The built in gains tax does not apply to income generated from the harvesting and sale of timber. In connection with our merger with The Timber Company, Plum Creek wrote off all of The Timber Companys deferred income tax liability related to timber and timberlands except for $11 million. The $11 million deferred income tax liability related to the book tax basis difference of timber and timberlands that were expected to be sold, and subject to, the built in gains tax during the ten year period ending October 6, 2011. During the period October 6, 2001 to December 31, 2008, the $11 million deferred income tax liability was reduced by $5 million due to a remeasurement of the amount of deferred income taxes needed and by $2 million due to the payment or accrual of tax in connection with sales of timberlands subject to the built in gains tax. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, Plum Creek remeasures the amount of deferred income taxes needed in connection with expected sales of timberlands subject to 36 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 the built in gains tax each quarterly reporting period. Based on projected timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax for the period January 1, 2009 to October 6, 2011, and Plum Creeks ability to successfully reinvest proceeds in like kind properties, the company estimates it needs a deferred tax liability of approximately $4 million. As a result, no adjustment to the deferred tax liability associated with built in gains tax was made in 2008, 2007 or 2006. It is likely that actual timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax over the ten year period ending October 6, 2011, will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. An adjustment to earnings will be required in the period in which it is determined that timberland sales subject to the built in gains tax will be greater than, or less than, our current projection. ACCOUNTING FOR SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Plum Creek has a stockholder approved Stock Incentive Plan that provides for the award of non qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, value management awards and dividend equivalents. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The company accounts for share based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)). See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Grants of both value management awards and dividend equivalents represent awards that are classified and accounted for as liabilities under SFAS No. 123(R). As a result, the expense recognized over the performance period for both value management awards and dividend equivalents will equal the fair value (i.e., cash value) of an award as of the last day of the performance period multiplied by the number of awards that are earned. Furthermore, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the quarterly expense recognized during the performance period to be based on the fair value of value management awards and dividend equivalents as of the end of the most recent quarter. Prior to the end of the performance period, compensation costs for value management awards and dividend equivalents are based on the awards most recent quarterly fair values and the number of months of service rendered during the performance period. Fair values for value management awards and dividend equivalents are computed based on our historical relative total shareholder return and simulated relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of peer groups consisting of forest products companies, the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley REIT Index over the same period (Peer Group). The simulated total shareholder return of the company and the Peer Group is computed using a Monte Carlo simulation. The key assumptions used in the simulation of the companys and the Peer Groups total shareholder return are volatility, beta (the measure of how Plum Creeks stock moves relative to the market as a whole), risk free interest rate, and expected dividend yield. Additionally, the fair value of dividend equivalents assumes that our current quarterly dividend of the companys common stock of $0.42 per share will remain constant through the end of the performance period. The fair value of the liability for outstanding value management awards and dividend equivalents at December 31, 2008 was $23 million, which is based on the current fair value of outstanding awards multiplied by the percentage of months services that were provided during the performance period. The liability at December 31, 2008 could range between $13 million and $26 million based on the possible fair value of all outstanding liability based awards. In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), we could have a material adjustment to our share based compensation liability to the extent there is a material change in the fair value of our value management awards and dividend equivalents during the quarter. PENSIONS Plum Creek provides pension benefits under defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We maintain a qualified defined benefit PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 37 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 pension plan and two supplemental (non qualified) defined benefit pension plans. Participants benefits vest after three years of service. The cash balance benefits for salaried employees is determined based primarily on certain percentages of compensation, age, years of service and interest accrued based on the 30 year Treasury bond rate. Participants who were employees of the company on September 1, 2000, earn benefits based on the greater of the cash balance formula or a monthly pension benefit that is principally based on the highest monthly average earnings during any consecutive sixty month out of the last 120 month period and the number of years of service credit. The benefits to hourly employees are generally based on a fixed amount per year of service. Plum Creeks contributions to its qualified pension plan vary from year to year, but the company has made at least the minimum contributions required by law in each year. It is generally the companys policy to fund the qualified pension plan annually such that the fair value of plan assets equals or exceeds the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation (the approximate actuarially computed current pension obligation if the plan was discontinued) over a market cycle (generally 3 to 5 years). The company has the same funding policy for the non qualified plan. However, assets related to the non qualified plans are held in a grantor trust and are subject to the claims of creditors and, therefore, are not considered plan assets. The computation of the companys benefit obligation, pension cost and accrued pension liability under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make certain assumptions involving primarily the following (weighted average rates): 2008 2007 Assumptions Used to Determine the Benefit Obligation at December 31 Discount RateA 6.85 % 6.75 % Rate of Compensation IncreaseB 3.70 % 3.70 % Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost Discount Rate 6.75 % 5.90 % Expected Long Term Return on Plan AssetsC 7.75 % 7.75 % Rate of Compensation IncreaseB 3.70 % 3.70 % A The December 31, 2008, discount rate was determined by the resulting yield of a hypothetical bond portfolio at December 31, 2008, matched to the expected benefit payments under the plans. Bonds selected for this portfolio had a Moodys or Standard & Poors credit rating of AA or better as of December 31, 2008. B The assumed rate of increase of future compensation levels represents our long term estimate of such increases on the basis of the composition of plan participants, past results and market expectations. C The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns on each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption for the portfolio. Since pension benefit payments may be in either a single lump sum or an annuity distribution, both the estimated percentage of participants electing a lump sum payment and the assumed interest rate (discount rate) used in computing the lump sum benefit are key assumptions. The discount rate assumption for lump sum distributions is an approximation of the 30 year U.S. Treasury rate. Other key assumptions used in the estimate include primarily 38 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 those underlying the mortality table, and expected long term rates for inflation, retirement and withdrawals, all of which are based on plan experience and standard actuarial methods but which are nevertheless subject to uncertainty. It is likely that the actual return on plan assets and the outcome of other uncertain variables will differ from those used in estimating our pension costs and pension obligation reflected in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Furthermore, the company may, from time to time, adjust the asset allocation, which may have an impact on the long term rate of return on plan assets. The following table summarizes key financial measures and sensitivities to changes in assumptions for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 Key Financial Measures Pension Expense $ 7 $ 8 Cash Pension Plan Contributions Qualified Plan 30 Cash Grantor Trust Funding Supplemental Plans 7 Current Accrued Pension Liability 3 2 Non Current Accrued Pension Liability 39 23 Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions Increase in Pension Expense for Every 0.25 Percentage Point: Decrease in Long Term Rate of Return on Plan Assets $ 0.2 $ 0.2 Decrease in Weighted Average Discount Rate 0.2 0.7 Increase in Rate of Increase in Compensation Levels 0.1 0.2 Increase in Qualified Pension Funding (actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation) for: Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount Rate $ 3.5 $ 3.7 Every 0.25 Percentage Point Decrease in the Weighted Average Discount RateAssumption for Lump Sum Benefits $ 1.8 $ 1.2 Assuming an average long term rate of return on plan assets of 7.75%, a weighted average discount rate of 6.85% for 2009 and beyond, and a 3.70% rate of increase in compensation levels, we project our annual pension expense for 2009 will be approximately $9 million, $10 million for 2010, and $13 million each for 2011 and 2012. Over the same time period, the annual cash funding required under our present funding policy and current funding rules for the qualified pension plan is expected to range between $0 and $16 million in 2009, and be approximately $6 million each for 2010 and 2011, and $7 million in 2012. We expect to fund between $0 and $4 million in 2009 to our supplemental (non qualified) pension plans. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The company has no off balance sheet debt. Our consolidated financial statements reflect all of the operations and assets and liabilities of the company. The company has an equity investment in an unconsolidated entity, discussed below. Otherwise, the company has no other relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. On October 1, 2008, the company contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands located in its Southern Resources Segment to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. The company accounts for its interests in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In August 2008, the company entered into two purchase commitments to supply natural gas to our manufacturing facilities for the period November 2008 through March 2009. The contracts, which are derivatives, were designated as PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 39 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 normal purchases under the terms of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities. As of December 31, 2008, the companys remaining purchase obligation under these contracts was $0.7 million. The company is not a party to any other derivative transactions. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2008 (in millions): Payment due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long Term DebtA $ 2,572 $ 251 $ 860 $ 936 $ 525 Note Payable to Timberland VentureB 1,348 58 116 116 1,058 Operating Lease Obligations 22 5 7 6 4 Timber Obligations 7 1 2 2 2 Long Term Incentive Plans 23 12 11 Purchase ObligationsC 25 17 8 Other Long Term LiabilitiesD Total Contractual Obligations $ 3,997 $ 344 $ 1,004 $ 1,060 $ 1,589 A In addition to principal, long term debt includes related interest obligations based on the coupon or stated interest rate for our fixed rate debt and the variable interest rates as of December 31, 2008 of 0.92% and 1.47% for our $350 million and $250 million term credit agreements, respectively. Interest obligations are $93 million (Less than one year), $156 million (1 3 years), $83 million (3 5 years), and $51 million (More than 5 years). As we expect borrowings outstanding under our line of credit to vary, only repayment of the principal is included. In 2008, interest expense related to our line of credit was $9 million. B On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture (a related party). The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. Interest obligations are $58 million (Less than one year), $116 million (1 3 years) $116 million (3 5 years), and $275 million (More than 5 years). In 2008, interest expense related to the Note Payable to Timberland Venture was $14 million. C Purchase obligations are comprised primarily of $11 million for third party logs for our plywood and sawmill facilities, $5 million for raw materials for our MDF facilities, $2 million for maintenance at our manufacturing facilities and $2 million for logging road maintenance. D We have not included any amounts for our other long term liabilities, as we cannot estimate when we will be obligated to satisfy these liabilities. At December 31, 2008, other long term liabilities include workers compensation of $11 million, deferred compensation obligations of $5 million, non qualified pension obligations of $26 million (including $3 million classified as a current liability), and qualified pension obligations of $15 million. We expect to fund approximately $3 million for workers compensation payments in 2009. We have two grantor trusts, which hold assets associated with our deferred compensation obligations and non qualified pension obligations. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of assets in one of our grantor trusts is approximately equal to our deferred compensation obligation of $5 million. At December 31, 2008, the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for the qualified pension plan exceeds the fair value of the qualified pension plan assets by $9 million. The December 31, 2008 fair value of assets in the other grantor trust was approximately $20 million and the actuarially computed accumulated benefit obligation for our non qualified pension plans was $22 40 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 million. Assets in our grantor trusts have been reserved for the above obligations. However, grantor trust assets are subject to the claims of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Additionally, based on current interest rates and expected returns, the company expects 2009 contributions to the qualified pension plan to range between $0 and $16 million and up to $4 million for the supplemental (non qualified) pension plan. See Notes 11 and 13 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Events and Trends Affecting Operating Results HARVEST PLANS We determine our annual timber (sawlogs and pulpwood, including stumpage sales) harvesting plans based on a number of factors. At the stand level, ranging in size from 10 to 200 acres, we consider the age, size, density, health and economic maturity of the timber. A stand is a contiguous block of trees of a similar age, species mix and silvicultural regime. At the forest level, ranging in size from 100,000 to almost 1 million acres, we consider the long term sustainability and environmental impact of certain levels of harvesting, certain external conditions such as supply agreements, and the level of demand for wood within the region. A forest is a broad administrative unit, made up of a large number of stands. Harvest scheduling is the technical approach using computer modeling that considers all of the above factors along with forest growth rates and financial assumptions to project future harvest plans for a number of years forward. Our actual harvest levels may vary from planned levels due to log demand, sales prices, the availability of timber from other sources, the level of timberland sales and acquisitions, the availability of legal access, abnormal weather conditions, fires and other factors outside of our control. We believe that our harvest plans are sufficiently flexible to permit modification in response to short term fluctuations in the markets for logs. Furthermore, future harvest levels will be impacted by sales of timberlands. The impact will depend on the level and extent we are able to reinvest proceeds in productive timberlands and the stocking levels and age class distribution of any newly acquired timberlands. Harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment were approximately 6 million tons (56% sawlogs and 44% pulpwood) during 2008 and 6.2 million tons (58% sawlogs and 42% pulpwood) during 2007. We expect harvest levels in the Northern Resources Segment in 2009 to be between 5.0 million and 5.5 million tons with an estimated mix of 55% sawlogs and 45% pulpwood. This decrease in harvest volume is due primarily to recent timberland sales, harvest deferrals until log prices improve and declining harvest levels in Montana. Harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment were 13.6 million tons (41% sawlogs and 59% pulpwood) during 2008 and 14.1 million tons (45% sawlogs and 55% pulpwood) during 2007. In 2009, we expect harvest levels in the Southern Resources Segment to be between 10.5 million and 11.5 million tons with an estimated mix of 48% sawlogs and 52% pulpwood. This decrease in harvest levels is due primarily to the contribution of 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in 2008 and the temporary increase in pulpwood harvests during 2007 and 2008 to take advantage of favorable pulpwood prices. The lands contributed to the Timberland Venture contributed approximately 1.4 million tons of harvest during 2008. CONSERVATION SALE IN NORTHERN RESOURCES SEGMENT During 2008, we signed an agreement to sell approximately 310,000 acres of timberlands in Montana in our Northern Resources Segment for $489 million in three phases. Proceeds from the first phase were $150 million and were received in 2008. Proceeds from the second phase were $250 million and were received in February 2009. Proceeds from the third phase of $89 million are expected to be received in 2010. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 41 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 U.S. CANADA SOFTWOOD LUMBER AGREEMENT Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. In 2006, the Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA) was signed by the U.S. and Canada establishing a system of tiered taxes and or volume restrictions that will be in effect for a period of seven years. Generally, the SLA provides that no import restrictions would be imposed on Canadian lumber shipments to the U.S. when the published composite price for lumber is higher than $355 (per thousand board feet). Below that level, a system of tiered export tax and or volume restrictions would be triggered. The impact of the taxes could be mitigated by fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. and Canadian dollars. During 2007, U.S. officials alleged Canada has not collected all taxes due and has allowed more lumber exports to the U.S. than provided for under the SLA. Under the terms of the SLA, disputes that cannot be settled are resolved by binding arbitration. A final ruling has not been issued by the arbitrator in this dispute. In 2008, the U.S. filed a second arbitration case alleging that certain Canadian provinces have provided subsidies to their lumber industries, in violation of the SLA. The arbitrator agreed with the U.S. that Canada violated the SLA by failing to properly adjust the quota volumes of the Eastern Canadian provinces, but disagreed with the U.S. in finding that the same adjustment is not required for the Western provinces. Notwithstanding the signing of the SLA between the U.S. and Canadian governments and the results of matters being (or expected to be) arbitrated, there can be no assurance it will effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase. COMPARABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PERIODS Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have pursued and expect to continue to pursue both the acquisition and divestiture of timberlands to increase the value of our assets. During 2008, we acquired 147,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Georgia, Vermont and Oregon. During 2007, we acquired 69,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon and Georgia. During 2006, we acquired 98,000 acres of timberlands, located primarily in Oregon. We sold approximately 314,000 acres of timberlands in 2008. Additionally, approximately 454,000 acres located in the Southern Resources Segment were contributed to a timberland venture in exchange for an equity interest. We sold approximately 252,000 acres of timberlands in 2007 and 112,000 acres in 2006. As a result of these timberland transactions our ownership was approximately 7.4 million acres at December 31, 2008, approximately 8 million acres at December 31, 2007 and approximately 8.2 million acres at December 31, 2006. Accordingly, the comparability of periods covered by the companys financial statements is, and in the future may be, affected by the impact of timberland acquisitions and divestitures. 42 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Results of Operations The following table compares Operating Income (Loss) by Segment and other items impacting our income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Operating Income (Loss) by Segment Northern Resources $ 41 $ 58 $ 105 Southern Resources 128 161 178 Real Estate 245 250 178 Manufactured Products (44 ) 2 22 Other 23 17 16 Total Segment Operating Income 393 488 499 Other Costs and Eliminations (64 ) (64 ) (53 ) Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement 14 Other Operating Income (Expense), net (1 ) 1 Operating Income 328 424 461 Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture 15 Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties) 134 147 133 Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture) 14 Gain on Extinguishment of Debt 11 Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (27 ) (3 ) 13 Income from Continuing Operations $ 233 $ 280 $ 315 2008 COMPARED TO 2007 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $14 million, or 4%, to $347 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($17 million) and lower sawlog prices ($13 million), partially offset by higher pulpwood prices ($14 million). Sawlog harvest volume during 2008 was 3.4 million tons compared to 3.6 million tons in 2007. Pulpwood harvest volume was 2.6 million tons during both 2008 and 2007. The 7% decrease in sawlog harvest volume was due primarily to a planned reduction in harvest levels as a result of temporarily increasing harvest volumes in prior years to capture favorable prices and recent timberland sales. Additionally, during 2008 we announced the sale of 310,000 acres of timberlands located in Montana which is scheduled to close in phases over a three year period, the first of which closed in 2008. The harvest volume from these acres in both 2007 and 2008 was 0.3 million tons. Sawlog harvest volume in 2009 is expected to decline approximately 15% and pulpwood harvest volume is expected to decline approximately 10%. The 15% decrease in sawlog harvest volume is due primarily to recent timberland sales, harvest deferrals until log prices improve and declining harvest levels in Montana. Sawlog prices were 6% lower compared to the prior year due primarily to weak lumber prices. During 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, sawlog prices were under downward pressure due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts as a result of the recession in the U.S., the significant number of foreclosed homes, and the increased difficulty in obtaining financing for the purchase of a home. Pulpwood prices were 15% higher compared to the prior year due primarily to strong demand for wood fiber from pulp and paper companies, a reduced supply of woodchips as a result of lumber and plywood mill curtailments, increasing demand for wood fiber for energy use, and wet weather conditions which limited pulpwood availability in certain markets. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 43 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Northern Resources Segment operating income was 12% of its revenues for 2008 and 16% for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices and higher hauling rates, offset in part by higher pulpwood prices. Segment costs and expenses increased by $3 million, or 1%, to $306 million in 2008. The increase was due primarily to higher log and haul costs, offset in part by a $4 million fire loss in 2007. On a per ton basis, logging and hauling costs increased 6% ($11 million) due primarily to higher fuel costs. However, the log and haul rate per ton during the fourth quarter of 2008 was approximately the same as the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the recent decline in the cost of oil. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $31 million, or 6%, to $461 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices ($18 million), lower harvest volumes ($17 million) and a lower margin mix of log sales ($14 million), partially offset by higher pulpwood prices ($18 million). Sawlog prices were 14% lower on a stumpage basis in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to a combination of weak demand and higher hauling costs. Sawlog prices on a delivered basis decreased by 7%. Pulpwood prices on a stumpage basis were 17% higher in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to the strong demand for wood fiber from pulp and paper companies throughout most of 2008 and a reduced supply of woodchips as a result of lumber and plywood mill curtailments. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, pulpwood demand began to weaken due to the slowing U.S. economy. On a delivered basis, pulpwood prices increased 10%. As a result of the improved pulpwood prices and weak sawlog prices, we increased the percentage of pulpwood harvested and decreased the percentage of sawlogs harvested, which resulted in an overall lower margin mix from log sales. Sawlog harvest volume during 2008 was 5.6 million tons compared to 6.4 million tons in 2007. Pulpwood harvest volume was 8.0 million tons compared to 7.7 million tons in 2007. The 13% decrease in sawlog harvest volume was due primarily to harvest deferrals as a result of weak log prices. Additionally, on October 1, 2008, we contributed approximately 11% of our southern timberlands to a timberland venture (see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Harvest volume from these timberlands was approximately 1.4 million tons for both the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, and in both periods the percentage of sawlogs harvested was slightly greater than 50%. Sawlog harvest volume in 2009 is expected to decline approximately 5% and pulpwood harvest volume is expected to decline approximately 30%. The 30% decrease in pulpwood harvest volume is due primarily to temporarily increasing harvest volumes in the past to take advantage of favorable prices and the transfer of 11% of our southern timberlands to a timberland venture. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 28% of its revenues for 2008 and 33% for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices, a lower margin mix from log sales and higher hauling rates. Segment costs and expenses increased by $2 million, or 1%, to $333 million. This increase was due primarily to higher logging and hauling rates per ton, offset in part by lower logging and hauling expenditures as a result of lower harvest levels. On a per ton basis, logging and hauling costs increased 7% ($12 million) due primarily to higher fuel costs. However, the log and haul rate per ton during the fourth quarter of 2008 was approximately the same as the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the recent decline in the cost of oil. 44 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenue per Acre Small Non Strategic 92,285 $ 89 $ 965 77,530 $ 110 $ 1,400 Large Non Strategic 99,325 70 705 Conservation 175,740 200 1,140 31,845 42 1,340 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 45,610 136 2,975 37,065 128 3,475 Development Properties 820 7 8,770 5,290 50 9,440 Conservation Easements n/a n/a Total 314,455 $ 432 251,055 $ 400 Proceeds from Joint Ventures $ $ 2 Revenues increased by $30 million to $432 million in 2008. Excluding revenue from a large, non strategic timberland sale in 2007, revenues increased $100 million in 2008 to $432 million, compared to $332 million in 2007. This increase is due primarily to higher revenues from sales of conservation properties ($158 million), increase in the number of acres of higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($50 million), offset in part by lower average prices from higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($63 million), and lower revenues from sales of development properties ($43 million). In December 2007, we sold 99,325 large non strategic acres in Wisconsin for $70 million. Revenues from the sale of conservation properties increased by $158 million due primarily to the sale of approximately 130,000 acres in Montana for $150 million in December 2008. Conservation sales vary significantly from period to period and are primarily impacted by government and not for profit funding, the limited number of conservation buyers, and the timing of our transactions. Additionally, the price per acre for conservation properties can vary significantly due to the geographic location and the rationale for the conservation designation. The $150 million conservation sale in December 2008 was the first of a three phase deal. The second phase closed in February 2009 covering approximately 110,000 acres in Montana for which we received $250 million. The third phase of approximately 70,000 acres in Montana is expected to close late in 2010 for approximately $89 million. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. The increase in the number of acres of small non strategic properties sold during 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the timing of sales. The number of acres of higher and better use / recreational properties sold during 2008 increased by 23% compared to 2007, due primarily to our long term plan to expand the number of acres available for sale in many of the areas we own timberlands. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 15% during 2008 due primarily to selling more of our lower valued recreational properties. In the latter part of 2008, we changed our focus to offering more of our lower valued recreational properties as demand and price for properties with a higher value per acre significantly weakened due to the recession in the U.S. and the reduced availability of credit. Consequently, we increased our sales in areas with lower per acre prices. Our average sales price per acre for small non strategic properties declined approximately 31% during 2008 due primarily to selling a mix of less valuable PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 45 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 timberlands during 2008. During 2007, we sold a greater percentage of properties from higher value regions. Our remaining small non strategic acres do not have as great of a percentage of high value properties as our sales mix during 2007. Revenue from the sales of our development properties declined primarily because of a significant decrease in the demand for these properties as a result of a decline in consumer confidence and the financial market turmoil. We do not expect the demand for our development properties to return until the U.S. economy recovers and there is an improvement in consumer confidence. We expect revenues from real estate sales during 2009 to range between $430 million and $460 million of which approximately $250 million is from the sale of 110,000 conservation acres in Montana that closed in February 2009. In addition to the Montana transaction, sales in 2009 will consist of up to 140,000 acres of other properties. In addition, from time to time, we may dispose of larger blocks of other timberlands to maximize value. Furthermore, if the economy remains in a recession for an extended period of time, demand for our rural timberlands could be significantly impacted. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 57% for the period ended December 31, 2008, compared to 62% for the same period in 2007. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $35 million to $187 million in 2008. This increase was due primarily to selling more acres during 2008. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $66 million, or 14%, to $405 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower MDF sales volumes ($31 million), lower lumber sales volumes ($20 million), lower lumber prices ($14 million) and lower plywood sales volumes ($17 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($16 million). Lumber prices during 2008 were 7% lower than during 2007 due primarily to weak demand and excess supply. The demand for lumber has declined due primarily to significantly lower housing starts. U.S. housing starts peaked in 2005 at 2.07 million units and since then have been on a steady decline. Housing starts for 2008 were 0.9 million compared to 1.35 million units in 2007, a decrease of 33%. The lower housing starts are due in part to an excess supply of unsold homes on the market, with a current eleven month supply compared to an historical average supply of four to five months. The excess supply of unsold homes is expected to continue for at least the next twelve months due to falling home prices, high foreclosure rates, stricter borrowing terms from lenders and the current recession in the U.S. Lumber sales volume decreased by 17% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of weak lumber prices. MDF sales volume decreased by 22% in 2008. MDF demand weakened during 2008, especially during the second half of 2008, and is expected to remain weak until the housing market recovers. The weaker demand was due primarily to the significant decline in housing starts and the excess supply of inventories held by flooring and door manufacturers, distributors and retailers. MDF prices during 2008 were 16% higher compared to the prior year. Despite weaker demand, customers were generally willing to pay higher prices to partially compensate manufacturers for the higher cost of raw materials. Plywood sales volumes were 15% lower during 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease was due primarily to weakness in specialty markets, such as recreational vehicle, transportation and concrete forming applications. The decline in these markets is due primarily to the recession in the U.S., low consumer confidence and the reduced availability of credit. Manufactured Products Segment operating loss was $44 million for 2008 compared to operating income of $2 million for 2007. This decrease in operating performance was due primarily to write downs for inventories and purchase log commitments ($16 million), a lumber manufacturing assets impairment charge ($10 million), weak lumber prices and higher MDF raw materials costs. During 2008, we recorded a $7 million write down to net realizable value for our manufactured products inventories and a $9 million loss related to commitments to purchase logs from unrelated third parties. See Note 4 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Also during 2008, we recorded 46 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 an impairment charge related to certain of our lumber manufacturing assets due primarily to weak lumber prices and the expectation that housing starts, and therefore lumber prices, are not expected to improve in the near term. See Note 6 of the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $20 million, or 4%, to $449 million for 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber, plywood and MDF sales volume, offset in part by inventory and purchase commitments write downs of $16 million, the $10 million lumber manufacturing assets impairment charge and higher MDF raw materials costs. MDF raw materials costs increased by $15 million due to higher wood chip costs (caused by a regional shortage from lower lumber production) and higher resin costs. Other Segment. Revenues increased by $5 million, or 25%, to $25 million in 2008. This increase was due primarily to higher gas royalties ($3 million) and higher gas lease bonuses recognized as revenue ($2 million). Higher gas royalties were due primarily to higher gas prices in 2008. During 2008, we received cash proceeds of $21 million related to gas exploration rights granted on approximately 135,000 acres, of which $3 million was recognized as revenue. Of the $21 million, approximately $18 million will be amortized into revenue over the remaining portion of the expected five year exploration term. Equity Earnings from Timberland Venture. On October 1, 2008, we contributed 454,000 acres of timberlands to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (SDT) in exchange for a common and preferred interest. Both interests are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The preferred interest is entitled to a cumulative preferred return equal to 7.875% per annum (approximately $56 million per year). Income associated with the preferred return is included in equity earnings. During 2008, we recorded our share of equity earnings from SDT of $15 million, which includes amortization ($1 million) of the difference between the book value of the companys investment and its proportionate share of SDTs net assets. No cash distributions were made by SDT to the company during 2008. We expect equity earnings from our common interest to be approximately $2 million per year excluding the amortization of the basis difference. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest Expense, net (Debt Obligations to Unrelated Parties). Interest expense, net of interest income, for debt obligations to unrelated parties decreased $13 million, or 9%, to $134 million in 2008. This decrease was due primarily to lower interest rates on our variable rate debt. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we made approximately $208 million of debt principal payments and reduced outstanding borrowings on our line of credit by $201 million from the proceeds we received from the Note Payable to Timberland Venture and the $150 million conservation sale in Montana. Interest Expense (Note Payable to Timberland Venture). Also, on October 1, 2008, we borrowed $783 million from SDT (a related party) for a ten year term at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.375%. During 2008, we recorded $14 million of interest expense related to the note. Gain on Extinguishment of Debt. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for our Senior Notes due in 2015. As a result, we recognized a gain in 2008 of $11 million which was net of the associated unamortized discount and debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $27 million for 2008 compared to a benefit for income taxes of $3 million for 2007. The increase in the tax benefit of $24 million is due primarily to losses in our manufacturing business (resulting in a tax benefit of $18 million) and lower real estate sales (primarily development properties) from our taxable REIT subsidiaries (resulting in a tax benefit of $6 million). 2007 COMPARED TO 2006 Northern Resources Segment. Revenues decreased by $52 million, or 13%, to $361 million in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower harvest volumes ($36 million) and lower sawlog prices ($13 million). Harvest volume was PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 47 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 6.2 million tons during 2007 compared to 6.8 million tons in 2006. This decrease of 9% (primarily sawlogs) was due primarily to a temporary increase in harvest levels during 2006 to take advantage of favorable log prices. Sawlog prices were 5% lower compared to the prior year due primarily to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts. Northern Resources Segment operating income was 16% of its revenues for 2007, and 25% for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices and lower harvest levels. Segment costs and expenses decreased by $5 million, or 2%, to $303 million in 2007. The decrease was due primarily to lower log and haul costs as a result of a decline in harvest levels, offset in part by a fire loss ($4 million) and an increase in log and haul rates per ton ($4 million). The fire loss represents the book basis of the timber volume destroyed by 2007 fires on approximately 41,000 acres in Montana. The increase in log and haul rates per ton was due primarily to longer hauling distances. Southern Resources Segment. Revenues increased by $13 million, or 3%, to $492 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales compared to sales of standing timber ($27 million) and higher pulpwood prices ($9 million), offset in part by lower sawlog prices ($24 million) and a lower margin mix from log sales ($5 million). Harvest volumes were approximately 14.1 million tons for both 2007 and 2006. Revenues increased $27 million due to the companys increased percentage of delivered log sales. A portion of the increase in delivered log sales results from decreasing the percentage of standing timber sales. Under delivered log sale agreements, we are responsible for log and haul costs. Conversely, the buyer incurs the log and haul costs when standing timber is sold. We sell logs on a delivered basis when, in our judgment, log merchandising efforts will yield a net premium over selling standing timber. While revenues are higher under a delivered log sale, a large portion of that increase is to cover the related increase in cost of sales. As a result, for delivered log sales we realize lower operating income as a percentage of revenue, even though operating income is generally improved. Sawlog prices during 2007 were 9% lower than during 2006. The lower prices are due primarily to mill curtailments as a result of weak lumber and plywood prices caused by the significant decline in housing starts and a greater proportion of smaller diameter logs. Approximately one half of the sawlog price variance, or $13 million, is due to smaller diameter logs. The increase in smaller logs is due primarily to the increase in thinning of pine plantations as a proportion of our total pine harvests, and this trend is expected to continue. Pulpwood prices increased by 4% due primarily to lower sawmill residual woodchips as a result of mill curtailments and weather related harvesting restrictions. As a result of improving pulpwood prices and weak sawlog prices, we increased the percentage of pulpwood harvested and decreased the percentage of sawlogs harvested, which resulted in an overall lower margin mix from log sales. Southern Resources Segment operating income was 33% of its revenues for 2007, and 37% for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower sawlog prices, a lower margin mix from log sales and a higher proportion of delivered log sales. Segment costs and expenses increased by $30 million, or 10%, to $331 million in 2007. The increase was due primarily to a higher percentage of delivered log sales. 48 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Real Estate Segment. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Property AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenueper Acre AcresSold Revenues(millions) Revenue per Acre Small Non Strategic 77,530 $ 110 $ 1,400 60,095 $ 96 $ 1,585 Large Non Strategic 99,325 70 705 Conservation 31,845 42 1,340 24,385 41 1,695 Higher and Better Use / Recreational 37,065 128 3,475 22,770 93 4,070 Development Properties 5,290 50 9,440 4,325 65 15,125 Conservation Easements n/a n/a 13 885 Total 251,055 $ 400 111,575 $ 308 Proceeds from Joint Ventures $ 2 $ Revenues increased by $94 million to $402 million in 2007. Excluding revenue from a large, non strategic timberland sale, revenues increased $24 million in 2007 to $332 million. This increase is due primarily to an increase in the number of acres of higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($86 million), offset in part by lower average prices from higher and better use / recreational and small non strategic land sales ($36 million), no conservation easement sales ($13 million) and lower revenues from sales of development properties ($15 million). In December 2007, we sold 99,325 large non strategic acres in Wisconsin for $70 million. The number of acres of higher and better use / recreational properties sold during 2007 increased by 63% and the number of acres of small non strategic properties sold during 2007 increased by 29% compared to 2006. These increases were due primarily to a plan to expand the number of acres we sold in both of these categories during 2007. Our average sales price per acre for higher and better use / recreational lands decreased approximately 15% during 2007 due primarily to sales mix. During 2007, we increased our sales in states with lower per acre prices while sales remained stable in states with higher per acre prices. During 2007, competition increased in the states with the highest per acre prices and demand softened. Our average sales price per acre for small non strategic properties declined approximately 12% during 2007 due primarily to selling a mix of less valuable timberlands during 2007. During 2006, we sold a greater percentage of properties from higher value regions. Additionally, the timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the ability to obtain entitlements, the number of properties listed for sale, the seasonal nature of sales (particularly in the northern states), the plans of adjacent landowners, our expectation of future price appreciation, the timing of harvesting activities, and the availability of government and not for profit funding. Also, in any period the sales average will vary based on the location and physical characteristics of the parcels sold. Development properties revenue in 2007 includes $27 million from the sale of several parcels that were in the planning process to two developers in Georgia. Development properties revenue during 2006 includes the sale of a large development project for proceeds of $43 million. This large development project, which the company had been working on for several years, consisted of approximately 1,900 acres of land in King County, Washington. The Real Estate Segment operating income as a percent of revenue was 62% for the period ended December 31, 2007, compared to 58% for the same period in 2006. Real Estate Segment costs and expenses increased by $22 million to $152 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to costs associated with our large, non strategic land sale in Wisconsin during 2007 ($27 million) and selling more acres during 2007, offset in part by lower costs associated with our development business. Costs associated with our development business were $18 million for PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 49 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 2007 compared to $44 million in 2006, with approximately half of the development business costs in 2006 associated with the large project sold in King County, Washington. Manufactured Products Segment. Revenues decreased by $22 million, or 5%, to $471 million in 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber prices ($13 million), lower lumber sales volume ($9 million) and lower plywood prices ($9 million), offset in part by higher MDF prices ($10 million). Lumber prices during 2007 were 7% lower than during 2006 due primarily to weak demand and excess supply. The demand for lumber has declined due primarily to significantly lower housing starts. U.S. housing starts peaked in 2005 at 2.07 million units and since then have been on a steady decline. Housing starts for 2007 were 1.35 million compared to 1.80 million units in 2006, a decrease of 25%. The lower housing starts are due in part to an excess supply of unsold homes on the market, with a current ten month supply compared to an historical average supply of four to five months. The excess supply is expected to continue for at least the next twelve months due to falling home prices, record high foreclosure rates, stricter borrowing terms from lenders and a slowing U.S. economy. The supply of lumber in the United States decreased by 16% during the first nine months of 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. Lumber sales volume decreased by 7% due primarily to production curtailments as a result of a fire related log shortage in Montana and weak lumber markets. Plywood prices during 2007 were 7% lower than during 2006 due primarily to increased competition from commodity plywood manufacturers. Commodity plywood prices have experienced downward pressure due to lower oriented strand board (a substitute for commodity plywood) prices as a result of fewer housing starts. The lower commodity plywood prices have caused several plywood manufacturers to target the industrial markets we serve. MDF prices during 2007 were 8% higher than during 2006 due primarily to North American production curtailments. Despite weakening demand due to falling housing starts, the supply of North American MDF has declined faster due to weak operating margins and reduced imports. MDF operating margins have been compressed due to the significant increase in raw material costs, and MDF imports have declined as a result of the weak U.S. dollar. Manufactured Products Segment operating income was less than 1% of its revenues for 2007, and 5% of its revenues for 2006. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber and plywood prices and higher MDF raw materials costs. Manufactured Products Segment costs and expenses decreased by $2 million to $469 million for 2007. This decrease was due primarily to lower lumber sales volume and raw material costs, offset in part by higher MDF raw material costs. MDF raw material costs increased by $13 million as a result of higher wood chip (due to a regional shortage from lower lumber production) and resin costs. Other Costs and Eliminations. Other Costs and Eliminations (which consists of corporate overhead and intercompany profit elimination) decreased operating income by $64 million in 2007, compared to a decrease of $53 million in 2006. This increase of $11 million was due primarily to higher share based compensation expense ($7 million) and increased costs associated with information technology ($1 million) and strategic business development ($1 million). The increase in share based compensation expense is due primarily to an increase in the fair value of our value management plan awards in 2007. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment , we adjust the fair value of our liability associated with our value management plan quarterly based on our relative total shareholder return compared to the performance of several peer groups. Gain from Canadian Lumber Settlement. In 2006, a definitive agreement was signed between the U.S. and Canadian governments to settle the long standing dispute over Canadian lumber imports. Under the terms of the agreement, approximately $500 million of deposits collected by the U.S. was paid to members of the U.S. industry coalition. As a member of the coalition, we received a pro rata share of these funds totaling $14 million ($13 million, net of tax). 50 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Interest Expense, net. Interest expense (net of interest income) increased $14 million, or 11%, to $147 million in 2007. This increase was due primarily to increased borrowings to fund the repurchase of common stock and timberland acquisitions. During 2007, a combination of cash and debt financing was used to fund $174 million of timberland acquisitions, primarily in Oregon and Georgia, and repurchase $202 million, or approximately 5.1 million shares, of common stock. Provision for Income Taxes. The benefit for income taxes was $3 million for 2007 compared to a provision for income taxes of $13 million for 2006. This net decrease of $16 million is due primarily to a decrease in operating income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries. The lower operating income is due primarily to a large, 1,900 acre development project in King County, Washington that was sold during 2006 (resulting in a lower tax expense of $8 million) and weaker earnings from our manufacturing business (resulting in a lower tax expense of $7 million). PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 51 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Financial Condition and Liquidity Our cash flows from operations are impacted by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry and by general economic conditions in the United States, including interest rate levels and availability of financing. We generate cash primarily from sales of delivered logs and standing timber, sales of our finished manufactured wood products, and sales of our timberlands. Our principal cash requirements are primarily for: expenditures for logging and hauling of logs, purchases of logs, fiber and other raw materials used in our manufacturing facilities, employee compensation and related benefits, reforestation, silviculture, road construction and road maintenance on our timberlands, and energy and operating expenditures to run our manufacturing facilities. Our Resources and Manufactured Products Segments have significant uses of cash, and as a result our operating income (excluding depletion and depreciation) approximates the Segments operating cash flow. On the other hand, our cash outflows in our Real Estate and Other Segments are very small, and as a result our revenues from those Segments approximate operating cash flows. In certain circumstances for our Other Segment, cash will be received in upfront payments, such as lease bonuses, but revenues will be recognized over several reporting periods (quarters or years). We have summarized our sources and uses of cash in a table at the end of this section. During 2008, our cash flows were impacted by the significant downturn in the U.S. economy and specifically by the decline in housing starts. Our operating cash flows decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to lower sales from our Manufactured Products Segment (decreased 14%) and lower sales from our Resources Segments (combined decreased 5%) and higher costs to transport logs due to the cost of diesel fuel (increased 7% per ton). Our operating income for these Segments was lower on a combined basis by 43%. Our cash flows were positively impacted by higher timberlands sales in 2008 compared to 2007 (increased 8%). We believe we have a strong balance sheet and do not foresee any short term liquidity issues. At December 31, 2008, we had a cash balance of $369 million and had availability of $506 million under our line of credit. During 2008, we completed two strategic transactions which improved our financial position. The first transaction was the contribution of 454,000 acres to Southern Diversified Timber, LLC (the Timberland Venture) in exchange for a preferred and common interest. These timberlands were valued in the transaction at $783 million. The other venture partner contributed cash of $783 million in exchange for a common interest. The $705 million preferred interest effectively establishes the value and the economic returns with respect to 90 percent of our investment in the Timberland Venture. The balance of our investment is a 9% common interest in the Timberland Venture valued at $78 million. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Following the contribution, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture. The $783 million loan matures in ten years and requires quarterly interest payments. A portion of the loan proceeds were used to make principal payments on our senior notes and to repay a portion of our line of credit. As a result of these repayments and lower interest rates on our variable rate debt, we expect annual interest payments on our outstanding debt (to unrelated parties) to decrease by approximately 25% to $100 million in 2009. The second transaction was the sale of 310,000 acres in Montana for $489 million, which is expected to close in three phases. Proceeds from the first phase were $150 million and were received in 2008. Proceeds from the second phase were $250 million and were received in February 2009. Proceeds from the third phase of $89 million are expected to be received in 2010. During 2008, we generated cash of $420 million from operating activities. Despite the current recession in the U.S., we expect to generate improved cash flows from operating activities in 2009. Management expects that any potential decline in revenue due to weaker pricing will be offset by: (1) higher real estate revenues due primarily to the second 52 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 phase closing of the Montana transaction, (2) lower interest payments (on debt obligations to unrelated parties), (3) break even cash flows from the Manufactured Products Segment due to curtailed production, (4) positive working capital impact related to the timing of proceeds from like kind exchange transactions in 2009, and (5) lower pension funding. We believe based on our strong balance sheet and liquidity and the cash we expect to generate from operating activity, that we will meet all of our long term interest and principal payments, required capital expenditures and quarterly dividend distributions in 2009. The following table summarizes total cash flows for operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 420 $ 517 $ 556 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (205 ) (262 ) (199 ) Net Cash Used in Financing Activities (86 ) (288 ) (453 ) Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 129 $ (33 ) $ (96 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $420 million, compared to $517 million in 2007. This decrease of $97 million is due primarily to a combined $86 million decrease in operating income for our Resources Segments and our Manufactured Products (net of a non cash impairment charge) and a $64 million negative working capital change, offset in part by higher Real Estate Segment sales of $30 million and proceeds from gas exploration rights of $21 million. See Results of Operations for a discussion of the factors impacting Segment Revenues and Operating Income and for a discussion of the gas exploration rights. We often enter into like kind (tax deferred) exchange transactions to sell and acquire timberlands. During 2008, operating cash flows were impacted by a negative working capital change due primarily to the timing of when proceeds from a like kind exchange trust are either reinvested in replacement property or distributed to the company ($48 million). Proceeds associated with a forward like kind exchange are either reinvested in like kind property within 180 days, or if the exchange is not successful, are distributed to the company at the end of either the 45 day identification period or the 180 day reinvestment period. At December 31, 2008, we had $48 million of proceeds held in a like kind exchange trust compared to December 31, 2007 where all like kind exchange funds had been utilized for timberland acquisitions during the year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $517 million, compared to $556 million in 2006. This decrease of $39 million is due primarily to weaker operating income from our timber business ($64 million) and manufacturing business ($20 million), and lower proceeds from like kind exchange trusts ($30 million), offset in part by proceeds from the sale of approximately 100,000 acres of timberlands in Wisconsin ($70 million). During 2006, we received proceeds from an unsuccessful like kind exchange while during 2007, all like kind exchange funds were utilized for timberland acquisitions. During 2008, we contributed $37 million to fund our pension plans. Of this amount, $30 million was contributed to the qualified plan and marketable securities of $7 million were purchased in connection with our supplemental (non qualified) pension plans. As a result of our pension funding in 2008, no minimum pension contributions are required in 2009. However, based on current interest rates, expected returns on pension investments and the companys funding policy, we expect to fund up to $16 million in 2009 to our qualified pension plan and up to $4 million to our supplemental pension plans. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 53 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 Capital Expenditures. Capital expenditures were as follows for the years ending December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Capital Expenditures (Excluding Timberland Acquisitions) $ 70 $ 93 $ 86 Expenditures for Real Estate Development 7 19 6 Total Capital Expenditures $ 77 $ 112 $ 92 Timberland Acquisitions. Timberlands acquired were as follows for the years ending December 31 (dollars in millions): Year Amount Acres Primary Locations Funding Source 2008 $ 119 147,000 Georgia, Vermont and Oregon Line of Credit and Tax Deferred Exchanges 2007 $ 174 69,000 Oregon and Georgia Line of Credit and Tax Deferred Exchanges 2006 $ 111 98,000 Oregon Line of Credit and Tax Deferred Exchanges Planned capital expenditures for 2009, excluding the acquisition of timberlands, are expected to range between $80 million and $85 million and include approximately $68 million for our timberlands, $5 million for our manufacturing facilities, $4 million for real estate development investments, and $7 million for investments in information technology, primarily for resource accounting system enhancements. The timberland expenditures are primarily for reforestation and other expenditures associated with the planting and growing of trees. Approximately 50% of planned capital expenditures in 2009 are discretionary, primarily expenditures for silviculture. Capital expenditures at our manufacturing facilities consist primarily of expenditures to sustain operating activities and improve safety. Debt Financing. Our financial policy is to maintain a balance sheet that provides the financial flexibility to pursue our strategic objectives. In order to maintain this financial flexibility, the companys objective is to maintain its investment grade credit rating. This is reflected in our moderate use of debt, good access to credit markets and no material covenant restrictions in our debt agreements that would prevent us from prudently using debt capital. Line of Credit. We have a $750 million revolving line of credit agreement that matures in June 2011. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate for the borrowings on the line of credit was 0.81%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. Subject to customary covenants, the line of credit allows for borrowings from time to time up to $750 million, including up to $100 million of standby letters of credit. Borrowings on the line of credit fluctuate daily based on cash needs. As of December 31, 2008, we had $231 million of borrowings and $13 million of standby letters of credit outstanding; $506 million remained available for borrowing under our line of credit. As of January 21, 2009, all of the borrowings outstanding under our line of credit were repaid. Term Credit Agreements. On March 28, 2008, we entered into a $250 million term credit agreement that matures in June 2012. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate for the $250 million term credit agreement was 1.47%. The interest rate on this term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 1.00%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.5% to LIBOR plus 1.5% depending on our debt ratings. The $250 million term credit agreement is subject to covenants that are substantially the same as those of our revolving line of credit, and allows prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. 54 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 On June 15, 2007, we entered into a $350 million term credit agreement that matures in June 2012. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate for the term credit agreement was 0.92%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. The term credit agreement is subject to covenants similar to those of our revolving line of credit and allows prepayment of the borrowings at any time prior to the maturity date without premium or penalty. Senior Notes. We have outstanding Senior Notes with various maturities and interest rates. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for amounts outstanding at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P., the companys wholly owned operating partnership, has publicly issued and outstanding $463 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.875% Senior Notes pursuant to a shelf registration statement. The notes mature in 2015 and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. Under the shelf registration statement, Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc. may offer and sell any combination of preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants and guarantees, and Plum Creek Timberlands, L.P. may offer and sell debt securities. The company intends to maintain a shelf registration statement with respect to such securities. Note Payable to Timberland Venture. On October 1, 2008, we borrowed $783 million from the Timberland Venture. The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. During the ten year term of the note, interest is paid quarterly with the principal due upon maturity. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Debt Principal Payments. During 2008, we made debt principal payments totaling $255 million. We also reduced amounts outstanding from our revolving line of credit from $556 million at December 31, 2007 to $231 million at December 31, 2008 (decrease of $325 million). In addition to scheduled debt payments of $147 million, we prepaid, without prepayment premiums, approximately $58 million of principal for several of our outstanding Senior Notes during 2008. Also during 2008, we paid approximately $50 million to retire $62 million of principal for Senior Notes due in 2015. During 2007, we made debt principal payments totaling $123 million. Debt Covenants. Our Term Credit Agreements, Senior Notes and Line of Credit contain various restrictive covenants, including limitations on harvest levels, sales of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and making restricted payments (such as payments of cash dividends or payments for stock repurchases). The borrowing agreements limit our ability to make restricted payments based on a computation of available cash, which is generally our net income (excluding gains on the sale of capital assets) after adjusting for non cash charges (such as depreciation and depletion), changes in various reserves, less capital expenditures and principal payments on indebtedness that are not financed. Additionally, the amount of available cash may be increased by the amount of proceeds from the sale of higher and better use properties and, under certain circumstances, by 50% of the amount of net proceeds from the sale of other assets or the contribution of properties to a joint venture. At December 31, 2008, the company had $369 million of available cash that it could use to make restricted payments. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Furthermore, our line of credit and term credit agreements require that we maintain certain interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. The company was in compliance with all of our borrowing agreement covenants as of December 31, 2008. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 55 Table of Contents PART II/ ITEM 7 The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2008 2007 2006 Sources of Cash: OperationsA $ 513 $ 528 $ 538 Changes in Working Capital, net (56 ) 8 29 Cash from Stock Option Exercises 14 8 7 Cash from Other Asset Sales 3 3 2 Proceeds from Note Payable to Timberland Venture 783 Increase Debt Obligations, net 200 93 Other Cash Changes, net (3 ) 2 (3 ) Total Sources of Cash 1,254 749 666 Uses of Cash: Returned to Stockholders: Dividends (286 ) (294 ) (290 ) Common Stock Repurchases (264 ) (202 ) (263 ) Reinvest in the Business: Capital Expenditures (including Real Estate Development) (77 ) (112 ) (92 ) Acquire Timberlands (119 ) (174 ) (111 ) Expenditures for Timberland Venture (9 ) Meet our Pension Obligations: Pension Contributions (30 ) (5 ) Purchases of Marketable Securities (7 ) (1 ) Reduce Debt Obligations, net (333 ) Total Uses of Cash (1,125 ) (782 ) (762 ) Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 129 $ (33 ) $ (96 ) A Calculated from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Amount is calculated by adding back non cash items, deferred revenue from long term gas lease and other operating activities to Net Income. Equity. On February 10, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.42 per share, or approximately $69 million, which will be paid on March 6, 2009, to stockholders of record on February 20, 2009. Future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on the companys ability to make cash payments, borrowing capacity, changes in the prices of and demand for Plum Creeks products, and changes in our ability to sell timberlands at attractive prices. Other factors that our Board of Directors considers include the appropriate timing of timber harvests, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, stock repurchases, debt repayment and other means by which the company could deliver value to its stockholders. Plum Creeks Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program that may be increased from time to time at the Board of Directors discretion. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased 6.9 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $264 million, or an average cost per share of $38.53. At December 31, 2008, $137 million is available for share repurchases under the current Board of Directors authorization. Future Cash Requirements. Cash required to meet our financial needs will be significant. In 2009, we have $158 million of scheduled long term debt principal payment requirements. We believe, however, that our current cash on 56 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7 hand and cash flows from continuing operations will be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures and interest payments on our indebtedness through the end of 2009. We intend to use a combination of cash and the available borrowing capacity under our $750 million line of credit to fund the $158 million of debt obligations due in 2009. In 2010, we have $55 million of debt obligations due. Other Information SFAS No. 141(R). In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)), which is a revision of SFAS No. 141. In general, SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and transactions that are accounted for as business combinations. In addition, SFAS No. 141(R) generally requires all assets and liabilities of acquired entities to be recorded at fair value, and changes the recognition and measurement of related aspects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date within fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The standard is required to be adopted prospectively and early adoption is not allowed. The company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) to have a material impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 160. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No. 160). In general, SFAS No. 160 requires that a noncontrolling interest in a consolidated subsidiary be presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as a separate component of equity and also establishes a framework for recognition of changes in control for a consolidated subsidiary that is not 100% owned. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard is required to be adopted prospectively and early adoption is not allowed. All consolidated subsidiaries of the company are wholly owned; and therefore, the company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 to have any impact on the companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 57 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Approximately $2.1 billion (including $783 million of related party obligations) of Plum Creeks long term debt bears interest at fixed rates, and therefore the fair value of these instruments is affected by changes in market interest rates. The following table presents contractual principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of the companys debt obligations and the related weighted average contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates for the fixed rate debt (in millions): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total FairValueA December 31, 2008 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal DueB $ 159 $ 56 $ 416 $ 3 $ 250 $ 474 $ 1,358 $ 1,258 Average Interest RateC 6.8 % 6.8 % 6.6 % 6.2 % 6.1 % 5.9 % Related Party ObligationsD Principal Due $ 783 $ 783 $ 642 Interest Rate 7.4 % Variable Rate DebtE $ 231 $ 600 $ 831 $ 791 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total FairValue December 31, 2007 Fixed Rate Debt Third Party Obligations Principal DueB $ 147 $ 200 $ 59 $ 424 $ 4 $ 791 $ 1,625 $ 1,697 Average Interest RateC 6.9 % 6.8 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.2 % 6.0 % Variable Rate Debt $ 556 $ 350 $ 906 $ 906 A The fair value of the companys publicly traded debt (i.e., Senior Notes due 2015) is estimated using market quotes; the fair value of the companys other debt with unrelated third parties is estimated using the same rates adjusted for the different maturities. The fair value of the companys Note Payable to Timberland Venture is estimated using the same rates as the publicly traded debt adjusted by an estimated risk premium for holding company debt and the different maturity. The decrease in fair value of our fixed rate debt compared to December 31, 2007 (excluding related party debt) was due primarily to the repayment of $266 million of senior notes in 2008 and an increase in the market rates for corporate debt. Although treasury rates have decreased from the prior year, the difference between corporate debt rates and treasury rates (the credit spread) has increased, resulting in higher market rates for corporate debt in 2008 compared to 2007. The fair value of our floating rate term loans (variable rate debt) as of December 31, 2008 was determined by adjusting the spread over LIBOR to a current market spread for comparable debt as of December 31, 2008. The fair value of our floating rate term loans as of December 31, 2007 approximated the principal balance. B Excludes unamortized discount of $7 million and $8 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 58 | PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 7A C Represents the average interest rate of total fixed rate debt (excluding related party debt) outstanding at the end of the period. D On October 1, 2008, the company borrowed $783 million from a newly formed timberland venture. The annual interest rate on the note payable is fixed at 7.375%. E As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate on the $231 million of borrowings under our $750 million revolving line of credit was 0.81%. The interest rate on the line of credit is based on LIBOR plus 0.425%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.27% to LIBOR plus 1% depending on our debt ratings. As of January 21, 2009, all of the borrowings outstanding under our line of credit were repaid. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate for the $350 million term credit agreement was 0.92%. The interest rate on the term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 0.45%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 1.15% depending on our debt ratings. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate for the $250 million term credit agreement was 1.47%. The interest rate on the $250 million term credit agreement is based on LIBOR plus 1.00%. This rate can range from LIBOR plus 0.5% to LIBOR plus 1.5% depending on our debt ratings. PLUM CREEK 2008 FORM 10 K | 59 Table of Contents PART II / ITEM 8 
 
